
Post 1 CMV I genuinely can't trust Israel on whatever they say anymore
Author ExtremeAcceptable289Post Text So I've been keeping up with Palestine news lately and it's come to my attention that I feel I just can't trust Israel on anything anymore even though it'd be absurd to not trust them just because.

They've lied on so many thing it's crazy

Shereen Abu Akleh

The 40 beheaded babies (they also got Biden to lie about it)

The flour massacre

The al-shifa hospital incident in which an Israeli impersonated an al-Shifa doctor along with the edited video after Nov 2023 siege

The al-Ahli hospital faked voice call

The 15 executed aid workers 

Hamas stealing aid (turns out an israeli funded gang did it)

The many many times of "Palewood" lies (in which they later retacted/got debunked)

The gaza ministry of health being lies

The numbers of Hamas millitants dead (American intelligence and independent org says it is way less and the number they claim is actually the number of males &gt;15)

Hamas shooting people trying to get aid 

The white phosphorus

Even things that should be trusted like the clips they send I just cant trust. 

1  DeltaBotComment /u/ExtremeAcceptable289 (OP) has awarded 1 delta(s) in this post.

All comments that earned deltas (from OP or other users) are listed [here](/r/DeltaLog/comments/1l7fzn0/deltasawardedincmvigenuinelycanttrust/) in /r/DeltaLog.

Please note that a change of view doesn't necessarily mean a reversal or that the conversation has ended.

^[Delta System Explained](https//www.reddit.com/r/changemyview/wiki/deltasystem) ^ ^[Deltaboards](https//www.reddit.com/r/changemyview/wiki/deltaboards)


2  PlusBison7091Comment Your list conflates rumor Hamas propaganda and evolving official narratives; debunking requires nuance not blanket dismissal.

From the points it’s also unclear to me what you accuse them of lying about. Furthermore who do you mean by „Israel“ - the government or the IDF because the points that you have given are mostly not based on official statements by any Israeli institution. 

1. Shireen Abu Akleh

Israeli investigations concluded there was “a high possibility” she was accidentally struck by IDF fire aimed at armed suspects. While Al Jazeera found no hostile militants in her vicinity and suggested potential intentional targeting they are not a reliable source￼. While Israel’s initial denial was misleading IDF did not lie—they eventually acknowledged IDF fire as likely cause.

2. The “40 beheaded babies”

This narrative originated from unverified Israeli field reports. Most likely a journalist lost in translation when first responders talked about „40 dead children some of them beheaded“.  Everyone ran with it but Israel never said a thing. 

There is no credible photographic or forensic evidence ever supported claims of infants being beheaded; what was observed were bodies discovered post-mortem with visible trauma not premeditated beheadings. Which means children were found without a head - we don’t know how they lost it! President Biden’s repeated references were based on these flawed early accounts not Israel’s official statements which never confirmed beheading narratives—so the lie is with the rumor not Israeli officials.

3. The “flour massacre”

Multiple eyewitnesses and U.N. investigators confirmed Israeli troops fired live rounds into crowds seeking aid resulting in at least 112 deaths—something Israel initially downplayed but later partially conceded￼. BBC and UN reports found large numbers of gunshot wounds consistent with IDF weaponry￼. Israel’s narrative shifted from warning shots to admitting incidents of live fire showing evolution rather than deliberate falsehood.

4. Al‑Shifa hospital impersonator video

The widely circulated video claiming an “Israeli” nurse inside Al‑Shifa was thoroughly debunked by France 24 and OSINT investigators as staged propaganda. No verified evidence supports allegations of IDF impersonating medical staff. Israel never officially confessed to such an impersonation—it was fabricated by third parties and amplified in partisan media.

5. Al‑Ahli hospital “fake” voice call

The claim alleging staged Israeli propaganda around a doctored Gaza Health Ministry voice call lacks credible evidence. Investigations show fake IDF “confession” posts not Israeli government admissions. Al‑Ahli’s  incident in Oct 2023 remains disputed but was never supported by Israeli military inauthentic audio.

6. The “15 executed aid workers”

I wanted to summarize [this article](https//steadyhq.com/de/u-m/posts/a90081a0-2186-495b-aa5a-45d6f84e7816) by a German ex-military expert but I think it’s needed to read the full text. It explains well the IDF statements and the events what happened. 

7. Hamas stealing aid (Israeli-funded gang)

There are estimates that about 60 percent of the aid deliveries that went into the Gaza Strip were stolen by Hamas. There are dozens if not hundreds of videos—mind you from Palestinian sources—that show men armed with assault rifles hijacking and driving away trucks. Proudly brandishing their weapons standing on the cargo. We can debate who these weapon brandishing dudes are - but my bets are on Hamas. 

8. “Pallywood” staged scenes

Claims of staged Palestinian casualties (“Pallywood”) often stem from extreme fringe videos and have been refuted by credible outlets like France 24 and HonestReporting￼. While minor inaccuracies occur in war-zone footage there is no proof of widespread Israeli-funded fakery. Israel does not retract major events based on such rumors.

9. Gaza Ministry of Health lying

The Gaza Health Ministry run by Hamas has a long-documented history of inflating civilian death tolls including during the 2023 October hospital incident. Independent monitors stress these figures often lack external verification and must be treated cautiously. Israel for its part provides its own counts—figures differ but that doesn’t equate to Israel lying rather reflects differing data sources.

10. Hamas militants kill count

Israel carefully distinguishes between male civilian deaths and confirmed militant casualties. American and independent intelligence sources challenge high militant death estimates noting large portions may include non-combatants counted by Hamas-aligned sources. Israel’s claims of militants killed are based on field intelligence and ID cards recovered—complex but not inherently deceptive.

11. Hamas shooting aid‑seekers

IDF-released drone footage shows armed individuals firing at crowds seeking aid in Khan Younis suggesting Hamas-linked groups have targeted civilians to disrupt aid.

The truth is multifaceted and not an Israeli cover-up.

12. White phosphorus use

Despite accusations there is no confirmed evidence Israel used white phosphorus in Gaza in 2024–25 from independent war‑crime monitoring groups. Israel denies deploying it and no credible OSINT or forensic reports verify its use. Until those surface the claim remains unsubstantiated rumor.

Ugh I had to write this twice because I had to go back and check my sources. 

In summary imo the IDF or Israeli government is not deliberately lying. In fact most times they clearly state that they are “investigating” but sadly they only come out with results far after the rumors are already made facts. Also in most cases the IDF is able to admit fault. They admitted on October 7 some Israelis (like 4 or something) died by friendly fire (which is from a combat viewpoint completely normal in this chaos) and also they admitted within hours when they shot 3 of the hostages who escaped in Gaza by accident. 

What I recommend you and everyone is to stay open to more information and wait until all sides have their side of the story out to make judgement. 

The IDF is not perfect but there’s a lot of anti Israeli propaganda and fake news out there. Important not to conflate real criticism wirh made up stories.


3  Kman17Comment So a really basic question for you is this if you do not trust Israel what is your source of truth there? What makes you think it is free from bias?

To simplify a little bit there are basically four categories of sources here

 What Israel says 
 What the US says
 What ‘international’ entities (comprised of mostly European and Middle Eastern interests) say
 What Palestine says 

Those four entities are in order of “everything Israel says is true” to “everything Israel says is false”.

The U.S. generally sides more with Israel but critiques and Middle East influenced European agencies generally sides more with a Palestine but critiques.

The most probable reality is somewhere between the U.S. and EU assessment - and most of them have a more mixed assessment on all the topics you raised.

No entity here is free from bias. The NPOs and “international” entities have plenty.

There is a very very basic truth here which is that Hamas does use un-uniformed soldiers and they do hide amongst civilians. Like that’s not a debate.

That in turn makes every single incident a he said she said where no one has correct intel but everyone has a narrative.

You must also recognize that Palestines strategy is a PR war. They instigated Israel in a way that absolutely necessitated military response and their goal is to use the response in court of opinion to weaken Israeli alliances. That is also just undeniable.

Be careful with social media accounts. There’s this temptation to think Reddit / TikTok / whatever are delivering unfiltered news from the ground but those are astroturfed like crazy by state level actors pumping out Palestinian propaganda.

I would not want to suggest you review is you should read evey Israeli statement as gospel truth - there’s obviously a slant.

But you shouldn’t assume that the moment you find hyperbole or incorrect report it means that the side becomes entirely untrustworthy and by extension the other side becomes definitionally  right.


4  FalernumComment You are listing a whole lot of things but let's start with the first Shireen Abu Akleh

Israel stated they shot near her and Palestinians shot near her and that they weren't sure who shot her.  This is true!

Palestinian police never made the bullet available to check who shot her.  Israeli internal investigations said it was quite possible they had done so.  The US concluded that Israeli gunfire most likely hit her based on the Israeli investigation.

I don't understand why you say that means Israel lied
 They said they weren't sure and they might have.  They weren't sure.  That's truth


5  XolverComment I'm having problems knowing exactly what bar needs to be met to change your mind since your post is basically saying you can't trust Israel and then listing a few instances some of which Israel lied about and some of which Israel decidedly did not lie about. Others are trying to tackle your points one by one so I'll try something different.


If the bar is whether Israel never lies or makes mistakes - nope nothing will change your mind since it does/has.


If the bar is whether Israel is mostly truthful - it is. If you think otherwise it would be prudent to say what sort of statistical analysis you performed over Israeli messaging in general that included both truths and lies.


If the bar is whether it's more truthful than Hamas or Palestinians in general... Boy oh boy. This isn't even in the same ball park and I think no amount of evidence could persuade you if you think otherwise. Hamas lies as policy and any non lie is the exception and not the rule. Many lies are so ridiculously over the top such as saying a leader is just fine for months before admitting he was killed in an attack. I hope you're not deluded enough to think this bar is one Israel doesn't pass.


6  CommercialLead7406Comment Some points of accuracy on some of your claims.

40 beheaded babies - No Israeli source ever claimed this. An independent journalist erroneously made this claim early on. The Israelis claimed 40 children killed some beheaded. Final number of child casualties was around 36 so accurate. It is factually true that at least one child was found decapitated. Others were found dismembered.

&gt;

The Commission reviewed photos of the burnt skull of a decapitated woman found in Kfar Aza. The Commission also reviewed photos of a 12-year-old girl who was shot in the head and then decapitated.

&gt;A first responder working at a central identification centre for victims of 7 October told the Commission that containers with “special bodies” were received at the centre. He explained that these bodies included the bodies of children with severed body parts. The centre also reportedly received bags of severed body parts.

[https//www.ohchr.org/sites/default/files/documents/hrbodies/hrcouncil/sessions-regular/session56/a-hrc-56-crp-3.pdf](https//www.ohchr.org/sites/default/files/documents/hrbodies/hrcouncil/sessions-regular/session56/a-hrc-56-crp-3.pdf)

The fake Al-Shifa doctor wasn't from official Israeli sources just some social media poster.

Hamas stealing aid. They do steal aid. Israeli funded gangs do too but Hamas absolutely steals aid.

The Al-Ahli bombing was falsely reported as 500 casualties from Israeli munitions when in fact actual casualties were unknown likely far lower and the munition was likely a PIJ misfire.

[https//www.hrw.org/news/2023/11/26/gaza-findings-october-17-al-ahli-hospital-explosion](https//www.hrw.org/news/2023/11/26/gaza-findings-october-17-al-ahli-hospital-explosion)

The Gaza MoH has published questionable numbers and has made false statements. The MoH also uses some fairly unreliable methods to report casualties (google docs submissions) and makes no distinction between fighters and civilians. Total numbers are claimed to be broadly accurate but civilian vs combatant ratios are not well known.


7  AppropriateGate701Comment &gt;Shereen Abu Akleh

Israel said that they likely didn't kill her but that they'd investigate.  Then they completed the investigation and found that they accidentally killed her.

&gt;The 40 beheaded babies (they also got Biden to lie about it)

Not the Israeli government but people responding and reporting on it being misinterpreted.  There were beheaded babies and there were burned babies.  But there weren't 40 beheaded babies.

&gt;The flour massacre

A whole bunch of people ran on an aid convoy and were shot at by people protecting the aid convoy.  This is a tragedy but also why you don't attack an aid convoy.

&gt;Hamas stealing aid (turns out an israeli funded gang did it)

That's not true.  Hamas has been stealing aid.  Other groups have also been stealing aid.  There's been a lot of stealing aid.  Which explains the fact that people were running at an aid convoy and that the convoys were heavily armed.

&gt;The many many times of "Palewood" lies (in which they later retacted/got debunked)

Let's have some examples.

&gt;The numbers of Hamas millitants dead (American intelligence and independent org says it is way less and the number they claim is actually the number of males &gt;15)

You're just spitballing

&gt;Hamas shooting people trying to get aid

This literally happened.  For the reasons listed above.  Whoever controls aid controls the strip.  Hamas losing control of the aid has led them to attack Gazans who are trying to get aid elsewhere and not pay Hamas's exorbitant prices on food and supplies that should be free.

&gt;The white phosphorus

This didn't happen


8  OptimisticRealistComment Your reaction is understandable — there’s been misinformation from all sides. But it’s worth pausing to ask why does distrust flow so strongly in one direction which imo just shows how in this case powerful Hamas propaganda is. We live in a time where terrorist organisations are widely outpacing (western) societies in terms of media literacy in regards to spotting propaganda. Thats why theres such a worrying increase in radicalisations online. In other words these groups are well adapt to knowing which buttons to push.

Add to that a very large dose of what i call residual colonial guilt in the west which means that a lot of people in the west are overly eager to push global conflicts into a oppressed v oppressor dynamic before they side with the underdog if you will. This may feel like doing something good but unfortunately the world is much more complex than this binary worldview - the downside of this however are no less dangerous because it accelerates tribalism to the point where input that doesnt fit the preferred narrative is disregarded. We already have seen this with people disregarded any news that is remotely anti-palestinian to the point where a lot of people seemingly are choosing to side with Hamas - a literal terrorist organisation mind you - over a functioning state.

At the end of the day this is war. You shouldnt ever take any news coming from either belligerent at face value. Propaganda is just as important in times of war as weapons and ammunition. But ask yourself if you distrust Israel to the point you cant take any news from them seriously why the same doesnt apply to the opposite side - if it does good you passed the media literacy check (tho you only felt compelled to make a post about Israels untrustworthiness). However if not you may have to explore some biases you hold and why they exist.

//Edit typos


9  ADPGodComment This is not a CMV but if you are trying to argue that it is somehow less credible than other sources from the war I would encourage you to look up all the lies that have been told by Hamas up till this point. They're very easy to find if you search. Look at all the casualty counts they walked back or the fake videos with repeated actors theyve put out just to name a few. Israel has independant journalism and left wing media.


10  Mortimer1234Comment This is war and with war comes propaganda. For some of these events you calling them Israeli lies implies that you have chosen to believe Hamas propaganda instead. For example Hamas stealing aid. This is not a lie and has absolutely been happening. There are videos of Hamas militants shooting people trying to receive aid. There’s a reason why Palestinians have been protesting against Hamas and many of them have been murdered for doing so. 

“Israel lies” has simply become a convenient slogan for those on the anti-Israel train to shout whenever confronted with “facts” (I use that word lightly as I don’t think either side is ever going to present unaltered or non-cherry picked information) in the same vain that the MAGA crowd blames the news whenever you point of all of the shit that Trump has done. A key part of propaganda is causing your base to distrust the word of your enemy which is seen in both sides here. You’re just falling for the Hamas side in this case


11  Kitchen-War242Comment Your view literally "if any other source and Israel saying different things i believe any other source and use it as proof that Israel is always lying". I mean "Hamas stealing aid" and "gaza health ministry lies" as example of Israel lies seriously?


12  oshaboyComment I feel like you are mixing up 3 categories in the list. Actual Lies Unsubstantiated Rumors/Mistakes and "Thing I claim are lies without any proof". 

For example the "40 beheaded babies" claim that you claim "Israel peddled" was likely an unsubstantiated rumor a commander heard from one of his soldiers on October 7th and it was closer to "40 babies killed some beheaded". It was never actually an official stance. And claiming that Pallywood (or "Palewood") was ever an official IDF stance is absurd. 

The "al-Ahli hospital faked call" is one of those "Things I claim are lies". There is no evidence the call was faked and there is a LOT of evidence that the al-Ahli strike was both a misfire from Gaza and also that the casualty count was quadrupled after the fact. 

The only things of the list you gave where I feel there's actually good evidence that came from an actual lie by the IDF were the killing of Abu-Akleh which was way before the war and the executed aid workers. A lot of these there's sufficient evidence are actually true.


13  NewGeneral3939Comment War is full of propaganda. This is true of every war ever winning the global public opinion battle is a big part of every war. You can’t trust most of what the Palestinians are saying either especially if it came straight from Hamas. All you can do is find a third party news source you trust (which is getting harder and harder) or try to patch together the real story with videos and individual stories from both sides.


14  BuffZiggsComment How do you feel you reached the objective truth on the matters you listed?


15  Elope9678Comment How do you know you can trust the other side or the news you're consuming?


16  nevergoodisitComment The main counterpoint is at the bottom of most of the Palestine articles “According to the Hamas-run health ministry.” The pipeline is this one for news- Hamas sends their stuff to Al Jazeera Arabic the state media of Qatar (famous for running on imported slavery) then Al Jazeera English translates it into a more digestible form for westerners and then forwards it to larger media bodies. Their main source is listed as the Gazan Health Ministry which the large media bodies (correctly) attach to Hamas which long has been known to run it (as well as UNRWA-Gaza) to avoid legal liability. 

Meanwhile Israeli news is independent of the state so while you can expect pro-Israel bias it’s not being actively tampered with or tailored by a government pipeline. Israelis may be suspicious of their own politicians and their own newspapers as opposed to their politicians themselves are still more reliable than the Gazan Health Ministry.


17  Aggravating-Fail-705Comment You’re not saying it explicitly but it sure sounds like you’re implying that Hamas is trustworthy and Israel is not. 

Or are you saying that you don’t trust anybody in this conflict?


18  josh145bComment This is a Gish Gallop with too many claims to counter effectively all at once so let’s take this one step at a time. The Israeli government never spread the 40 beheaded babies thing. When they released an official statement on it it was to say that it wasn’t true. Biden was a bumbling old man who said a lot of shit.

Also you have been keeping up with the Israel Palestine conflict since you created your account. The way you say “lately” makes it seem like you are just getting involved.


19  t1r3dddComment Highly reputable news sources like Reuters and AP reported about the strange findings they made when they analyzed the numbers that the Gaza ministry of health had been putting out for a while and came to the conclusion that they artificially bumped the numbers of dead women and children up only to correct them after a few months.


I also remember being well awake looking at the live coverage of the supposed "Israeli attack" on the al-Ahli hospital where the Gaza ministry of health quickly released a recorded press conference/message in front of what seemed like a bunch of dead covered bodies claiming that it bad been an Israeli attack that killed about 500 people. This was immediately retracted and walked back just a few hours later as journalists could see the affected area in broad daylight realising that not only was the hospital not damaged but the actual missile/rocket had landed on a parking lot and of course no evidence of the "500 dead people" that was initially reported. It was also later reported that the rocket did not come from the IDF but was a faulty rocket by PIJ.


This isn't to say that Israel has been 100% transparent or truthful they obviously haven't but this doesn't warrant any more legitimacy or credibility to Hamas and what they report.


20  skejindoComment You’ve completely drunk the kool aid here. Qatar Hamas and the Muslim brotherhood spend billions on propaganda and news outlets to convince you of exactly this. 


21  Em3107Comment The 40 babies line was actually said by a bbc reporter not israel. 

And the actual line was 40 babies dead some beheaded.


22  UncuriousCroutonComment I cannot change your view.  But I do think it is important to remember there are no good guys in this war.  Hamas opened this with a surprise attack and the murder and abduction of Israeli civilians a war crime by any measure. 


Israel responded disproportionately.  Instead of retaliating against Hamas Israel.has punished the Palestinian people at large including civilians for Hamas' attack.  


Iran uses Hamas and Hezbollah to prosecute a proxy war against Israel.  The United States stands by Israel no matter what.  Europe wrings its hands but does nothing.  Other Gulf states voice support for Hamas but seem to offer little beyond thoughts and prayers.  


23  SupervisorSCADAComment &gt;The 40 beheaded babies (they also got Biden to lie about it)

Just for this one. This was not a result of Israel. It was the result of a mistake of a UK journalist taking two separate statements blending into one. There were two separate statements first being they've found decapitated babies/children. And a second separate statement over 30 minutes later claiming they've found over 40 dead children and babies.  These two statements were blended into one statement of 40 beheaded babies which was the lie that swept around the world.


24  Duckfoot2021Comment You'd best be just as suspicious of Hamas then because the outright propaganda and artificial statistics coming from them has been astonishingly unreliable.

If truth is your goal beware of "trusting" either side's reporting.


25  zhuangzijiaxiComment 1. What do you mean by Israel? The whole country are liars? Even the 50% who want Netanyahu out? 
2. What is your evidence that one side always lies and the other is telling the truth? Which side has a free media? 
3. The lying Jew is a classic antisemitic trope. Does this play any part in your lack of trust in Israelis?


26  Delli-paperComment You can trust them to do and say what benefits them. This is war after all. Hamas hasn't been light on the propaganda either. Many people still don't believe the Axis of Resistance hides under apartment blocks (Nasrallah) or Hospitals (Sinwar II) or in refugee camps (Dief) despite the fact we have irrefutable proof that they do in the form of leadership having been killed there. 

How do you turn this into good analysis? Whenever Israel (or Hamas) admit something bad has happened to them or makes a comment that hurts them you can generally take that as the absolute floor. If Israel says the country has lost 62 soldiers in Gaza then we can safely assume Israel has lost at least 62 soldiers in Gaza.


27  BugRevolutionComment &gt;Hamas stealing aid (turns out an israeli funded gang did it)

This seems an awful lot like you're just taking Hamas's word for what Israel does without any critical thought.

&gt;The gaza ministry of health being lies

This is fairly well established given that wars do not have a linear increase in deaths yet that's exactly what the MoH reported during the entire war. Comparing to other conflicts it becomes evident that their data was made up.


28  ArmThick7835Comment Not familiar with her name.  
40 beheaded babies was never something that Israel has ever claimed. It literally was just romurs from lifeless Pro-Israelis though babies HAVE been beheaded  
IDF unlike your sources released a statement saying that 10 Palestinians have been close to them in a threatning way so the opened in fire; chaos happened and unfortunately as like in any war there were civillian victims; Israel has never denied this.  
Huh?  
It was not fake LMAO unless your source is Al-Jazeera (banned in both israelk and Palestine btw; Hamas propaganda pull) no source has ever confirmed this is fake  
It was a deadly mistake which happens in every war and the IDF soldiers responsible for that were immediately taken off service (according to both Israeli and Palestinian sources).  
Lol. Hamas stole aid ENDLESS times. [https//www.idf.il/en/mini-sites/israel-at-war/all-articles/watch-hamas-members-beat-civilians-and-steal-humanitarian-aid/](https//www.idf.il/en/mini-sites/israel-at-war/all-articles/watch-hamas-members-beat-civilians-and-steal-humanitarian-aid/) [https//www.jns.org/abbas-confirms-hamas-gangs-stealing-gaza-aid/](https//www.jns.org/abbas-confirms-hamas-gangs-stealing-gaza-aid/) [https//www.youtube.com/watch?vNBjvYkNzuAA](https//www.youtube.com/watch?vNBjvYkNzuAA)  
Which lies exactly?  
Gaza Ministry IS full of lies. Hamas is a totalirian regime and therefore every government ministry is directly controlled by them. Multiple times they have added names for more then 10 times on the same list recognised Men as Women and Children didn't spill casualties to terrorists and civillians as in international law (cause theyre a terror group)  
I mean accordingf to Hamas itself they lost a HUGE number and are missing people  
It did  
?

You cant trust anything because the Palestinian propaganda machine got to you.


29  TheOriginalWindows95Comment I mean others have addressed much wider points but I think you don't know a lot of what your talking about and need to reassess if you don't know what Pallywood is as a term and think it refers to something Israel are faking.


Pallywood is a term used by those claiming Palestinians are faking videos not Israel faking videos.


30  Combination-LowComment There aren't only Jews in Israel In fact 21% of Israel isn't Jewish. Secondly saying that the people of a country who are in war and being constantly fed propaganda by their government can't be trusted is pretty sound logic.

To be more specific I meant that in the context of the current conflict saying Israelis can't be trusted on it isn't antisemitic.


31  Fickle-Advice7473Comment Please please please stop wasting everyones time and just copy paste it into chatGPT it's good enough these days to give you what you want.

I am not saying chatGPT is smart.

I am saying chatGPT is smarter than YOU.


32  Colodanman357Comment Who if anyone do you trust? Is your distrust unique to Israel?


33  TheUnculturedSwanComment I’m genuinely not trying to make you feel bad but if you ever invent time travel and go back to 1994 please don’t go looking to the Hutus to give you reliable information about the Tutsi okay?


34  DotJust98Comment yes but you never trusted Israel to begin with so what changed?


35  OldandBlueComment And yet Israel is still less bad than the antisemites who have already done the worst ever (ie industrial human extermination).


36  InternalKale1923Comment Much of what you just wrote is completely false.

You realize that literal AP reporters were holding kidnapped Israelis in their homes right? 

So much of what you think is true came straight from Hamas.


37  KnownWeek158Comment &gt;Hamas shooting people trying to get aid

Do you mean the recent story where the videos released after people had jumped to conclusions showed an entirely different story or something else?


38  ExoticAd8441Comment I assume you are referring to the Israeli government when you say "Israel". On what basis did you determine that they lied? Are you reviewing their statements against some sort of conclusive evidence? Because it seems like you are not really basing this on anything at all.


39  AdivKedar2Comment The 40 beheaded babies was a loss in translation. There was 40 beheaded and a baby not 40 beheaded babies 


40  DopeAFjknotreallyComment A lot of these views are the result of propaganda. For example - it was NEVER the official stance of the Israeli government that there were 40 beheaded babies. Not once. No official government agency ever put out a public statement with the sole intent of tricking people into believing that.

One independent media agency said it. That’s it.

I don’t have time to go through every example but you should make sure it’s actually the Israeli government officially making the claim before accusing them of lying about said claim.


41  PabloZocchiComment Yeah... but... why trust Palestine?

I mean... both countries are in middle of a war expect a ton of propaganda from both sides.

Both sides are lying don't trust anybody.

There is a phrase i really like that came from an engineer. "The only one i trust is god the rest must bring evidence"


42  [deleted]Comment [removed]


43  [deleted]Comment [removed]


44  [deleted]Comment [removed]


45  BobDylan1904Comment Oct 7 was a horrific beyond belief attack that included both military targets and a large number of civilian target.  A music festival was attacked and any israeli was summarily killed.  Many villages were raided with the aim of killing every Israeli there including children.  Don’t just say everything is a lie because you uncovered lies. It’s important people stop lying about 10/7.


46  Mastodon220Comment Hamas has falsified casualties from the start been confirmed to be using hospitals and schools as cover for military activities still responsible for the start of this war (Oct. 7th) but somehow the Israelis are not trustworthy? Sure Jan


47  swipeComment There are more reliable and less reliable israeli sources.

For example IDF spokesperson is more reliable than political Israeli figures and influencers.

Their content does get filtered and vetted by a legal team and the things they publish is considered legal evidence.

So that content is more credible than influencers and politicians who're willing to publish unvetted news that turns out later to be exaggerated .

Unfortunately  vetting news and conducting interrogations into incidents take time.

So when Palestinian media reports a massacre or hospital bombing it takes a couple of days for the IDF spokesperson to publish their report.

Often its too late and a massacre story has been circulating for a while without proper Israeli response.


48  DistanceOk4056Comment But you clearly trust Hamas and their propaganda. You can just say you don’t like Jews


49  DueRaisin5054Comment You can absolutely trust Israel but only when they say they’re going to a commit a war crime. That’s the only time their government tells the truth


50  Leading-Chemist672Comment ...
Right...

where does Hamas gets the warm bodies from?
You know recruitment.

If The Narrative you believe and Israel supposedly just lying. That Means that Israel is just demolishing Buildings. As there are no efforts to get civilians out that means that for the last year and a half plus Israel is basically carpet bombing The Pupulation.

That Is What You Are Saying. Right?

So where is Hamas getting the warm bodies to join up?

The Civilian Population is dead or injured right?

Their Hospitals are basically rubble right? Where do they get recruites from?

But then for a starving population they have A lot of overweight people and muscular people... So...

Looks to me that you're believing that people.


51  anarchistperson1Comment You shouldn’t trust anyone on anything at least in terms of war. Both Israel and Hamas are underreporting deaths in Gaza for Hamas mostly because of inability to accurately do it but also possibly to maintain morale somewhat for Israel to hide the extent of what they have done. Assess any reporting on war critically. I think reporting on war is maybe one area where corroborating reports between multiple news sources isn’t the best guide for if something is real and where instead just logically working out if something is feasible is better suited. On Israel and Palestine don’t trust the words of either government. Same for Russia Ukraine actually. 


52  No-Charge4382Comment Bostonian and fast attack submariner from 05-14. I don’t care that Israel is “our biggest ally in the Middle East” they’re full of shit.

Israel is basically that asshole cousin who likes to sack tap/prank other people who don’t like him. Then when one stands up Israel hides behind us saying they’re picking on me. For the record I’m a non practicing/non believing Irish Catholic. 

Israel is a fuckin disaster as is Hamas. It’s wicked bad that we support Israel and yet send aid to the Palestinians in Gaza. That’s like saying we want you alive long enough for Israel to continue their clown show 


53  [deleted]Comment [removed]


54  [deleted]Comment [removed]


55  Emergency-Drop-1241Comment Listen Israel raises their children to be colonists and terrorists. They raise them to be racist to believe they are superior to others to join the army to continue their genocide of Palestinians.  
So there’s no need to change your view unless you benefit from their subjugation of another society. If you don’t believe me have a look at videos from inside their schools their society is completely cooked 


56  Apprehensive-Foot-73Comment If you don't trust Israel how can you trust hamas?


57  Ragesm43Comment I think a majority of the human population doesn't trust Israel. It's the US puppet state dependent on Uncle Sam for its existence and don't let people tell you otherwise.


58  SabotimskiComment Ok Hamas we know you’re in there.

Post 2 CMV Trump is a horrible Leader
Author OverpricedGoodsPost Text Im making a post challenging the concept that Donald Trump is a good leader not just in this country but in general. I am not talking about his actions in terms of his policy rather I'm referencing how he acts as a person.

1. He's far more interested in sewing division than actually bringing unity to the other party and dissenters He's repeatedly calls Democrats as crooks with no basis he calls the press the "Enemy of the people" when they have the audacity to report the truth on him and he lumps any mild rhetoric against him as the "The Extreme Left". He's the least bipartisan president we've had in a century. Don't worry though there's plenty of accusations to go around if you are a Republican challenging his polices he'll call you a traitorous RINO never mind that he's the biggest RINO in existence.

2.  There is no "agree to disagree" Kind of tying to the first point but it seems like he can never just let go of things. To him he either likes you because you're doing something for him or he hates you because you're not. And it can flip on a dime. He famously called McCain a loser after his death just because of policy disagreements he mocked Faucci repeatedly at his rallies and then there's the recent Elon Musk fallout. And then there's the whole Election Fraud claims of course.

3. He values loyalty over expertise I dont even want to get into how dangerous this as a concept for this country but what this also tells me is that Donald has no faith bring able to lead with personal yes men. In order to be a leader you have to accept that not everyone is going to be on your side 100% of the time. Yet this guy cant even be bothered to even try to convince people why what he's doing is good. He'd rather do a purity test and fire qualified people because it hurts his feelings.

4. He doesn't know how to handle problems without threat of force (Cutting funds EO's or straight up using the military) For someone who's claims to be a successful businessman this dude straight up sucks at negotiating. For example even if I were to believe that single one of our allies is screwing us over in trade what good does it do to pass off our allies by insulting but more importantly threatening then with economic or military force. He also constantly escalates to either threatening or using violence. "When the looting starts the shooting starts." All this does is escalate tensions and everyone including people in his first administration tries tl tell him this but he just ignores it. If I have one point to make in all of this post is this If you have to constantly use force as a way to get what you want you're a dogshit leader.

5. There is literally no empathy To me one of the most defining moments of Trump's character on video is after the DC crash one of the the reporters asked if he'll visit the crash site. A pretty innocuous question. He gets flippant and says "What am I going to do swim?" Say whatever you want about Biden's mental state but even in Biden's supposed confusion he would definitely be able to try to say something positive unifying and presidential. It's indicative of his character. Trump can't even be bothered to even lie and say something nice on camera and just not follow through on it. Let's not also forget that with this same incident he said the crash was a result of DEI before the bodies were even cold. He takes no accountability and has no regard for anybody who isnt himself. He's far mpre concerned eith how he is viewed as president than the actual work needed to be viewed as such.

If anybody can provide examples of him being a good leader for people who dont innately praise him im open to changing my view.