I genuinely cant trust Israel on whatever they say anymore So Ive been keeping up with Palestine news lately and its come to my attention that I feel I just cant trust Israel on anything anymore even though itd be absurd to not trust them just because. Theyve lied on so many thing its crazy Shereen Abu Akleh The 40 beheaded babies they also got Biden to lie about it The flour massacre The alshifa hospital incident in which an Israeli impersonated an alShifa doctor along with the edited video after Nov 2023 siege The alAhli hospital faked voice call The 15 executed aid workers Hamas stealing aid turns out an israeli funded gang did it The many many times of Palewood lies in which they later retacted/got debunked The gaza ministry of health being lies The numbers of Hamas millitants dead American intelligence and independent org says it is way less and the number they claim is actually the number of males 15 Hamas shooting people trying to get aid The white phosphorus Even things that should be trusted like the clips they send I just cant trust. Your list conflates rumor Hamas propaganda and evolving official narratives debunking requires nuance not blanket dismissal. From the points it’s also unclear to me what you accuse them of lying about. Furthermore who do you mean by Israel the government or the IDF because the points that you have given are mostly not based on official statements by any Israeli institution. 1. Shireen Abu Akleh Israeli investigations concluded there was a high possibility” she was accidentally struck by IDF fire aimed at armed suspects. While Al Jazeera found no hostile militants in her vicinity and suggested potential intentional targeting they are not a reliable source￼. While Israel’s initial denial was misleading IDF did not lie—they eventually acknowledged IDF fire as likely cause. 2. The 40 beheaded babies” This narrative originated from unverified Israeli field reports. Most likely a journalist lost in translation when first responders talked about 40 dead children some of them beheaded. Everyone ran with it but Israel never said a thing. There is no credible photographic or forensic evidence ever supported claims of infants being beheaded what was observed were bodies discovered postmortem with visible trauma not premeditated beheadings. Which means children were found without a head we don’t know how they lost it! President Biden’s repeated references were based on these flawed early accounts not Israel’s official statements which never confirmed beheading narratives—so the lie is with the rumor not Israeli officials. 3. The flour massacre” Multiple eyewitnesses and U.N. investigators confirmed Israeli troops fired live rounds into crowds seeking aid resulting in at least 112 deaths—something Israel initially downplayed but later partially conceded￼. BBC and UN reports found large numbers of gunshot wounds consistent with IDF weaponry￼. Israel’s narrative shifted from warning shots to admitting incidents of live fire showing evolution rather than deliberate falsehood. 4. Al‑Shifa hospital impersonator video The widely circulated video claiming an Israeli” nurse inside Al‑Shifa was thoroughly debunked by France 24 and OSINT investigators as staged propaganda. No verified evidence supports allegations of IDF impersonating medical staff. Israel never officially confessed to such an impersonation—it was fabricated by third parties and amplified in partisan media. 5. Al‑Ahli hospital fake” voice call The claim alleging staged Israeli propaganda around a doctored Gaza Health Ministry voice call lacks credible evidence. Investigations show fake IDF confession” posts not Israeli government admissions. Al‑Ahli’s incident in Oct 2023 remains disputed but was never supported by Israeli military inauthentic audio. 6. The 15 executed aid workers” I wanted to summarize by a German exmilitary expert but I think it’s needed to read the full text. It explains well the IDF statements and the events what happened. 7. Hamas stealing aid Israelifunded gang There are estimates that about 60 percent of the aid deliveries that went into the Gaza Strip were stolen by Hamas. There are dozens if not hundreds of videos—mind you from Palestinian sources—that show men armed with assault rifles hijacking and driving away trucks. Proudly brandishing their weapons standing on the cargo. We can debate who these weapon brandishing dudes are but my bets are on Hamas. 8. Pallywood” staged scenes Claims of staged Palestinian casualties Pallywood” often stem from extreme fringe videos and have been refuted by credible outlets like France 24 and HonestReporting￼. While minor inaccuracies occur in warzone footage there is no proof of widespread Israelifunded fakery. Israel does not retract major events based on such rumors. 9. Gaza Ministry of Health lying The Gaza Health Ministry run by Hamas has a longdocumented history of inflating civilian death tolls including during the 2023 October hospital incident. Independent monitors stress these figures often lack external verification and must be treated cautiously. Israel for its part provides its own counts—figures differ but that doesn’t equate to Israel lying rather reflects differing data sources. 10. Hamas militants kill count Israel carefully distinguishes between male civilian deaths and confirmed militant casualties. American and independent intelligence sources challenge high militant death estimates noting large portions may include noncombatants counted by Hamasaligned sources. Israel’s claims of militants killed are based on field intelligence and ID cards recovered—complex but not inherently deceptive. 11. Hamas shooting aid‑seekers IDFreleased drone footage shows armed individuals firing at crowds seeking aid in Khan Younis suggesting Hamaslinked groups have targeted civilians to disrupt aid. The truth is multifaceted and not an Israeli coverup. 12. White phosphorus use Despite accusations there is no confirmed evidence Israel used white phosphorus in Gaza in 2024–25 from independent war‑crime monitoring groups. Israel denies deploying it and no credible OSINT or forensic reports verify its use. Until those surface the claim remains unsubstantiated rumor. Ugh I had to write this twice because I had to go back and check my sources. In summary imo the IDF or Israeli government is not deliberately lying. In fact most times they clearly state that they are investigating” but sadly they only come out with results far after the rumors are already made facts. Also in most cases the IDF is able to admit fault. They admitted on October 7 some Israelis like 4 or something died by friendly fire which is from a combat viewpoint completely normal in this chaos and also they admitted within hours when they shot 3 of the hostages who escaped in Gaza by accident. What I recommend you and everyone is to stay open to more information and wait until all sides have their side of the story out to make judgement. The IDF is not perfect but there’s a lot of anti Israeli propaganda and fake news out there. Important not to conflate real criticism wirh made up stories. So a really basic question for you is this if you do not trust Israel what is your source of truth there? What makes you think it is free from bias? To simplify a little bit there are basically four categories of sources here * What Israel says * What the US says * What ‘international’ entities comprised of mostly European and Middle Eastern interests say * What Palestine says Those four entities are in order of everything Israel says is true” to everything Israel says is false”. The U.S. generally sides more with Israel but critiques and Middle East influenced European agencies generally sides more with a Palestine but critiques. The most probable reality is somewhere between the U.S. and EU assessment and most of them have a more mixed assessment on all the topics you raised. No entity here is free from bias. The NPOs and international” entities have plenty. There is a very very basic truth here which is that Hamas *does* use ununiformed soldiers and they *do* hide amongst civilians. Like that’s not a debate. That in turn makes every single incident a he said she said where no one has correct intel but everyone has a narrative. You must also recognize that Palestines strategy *is* a PR war. They instigated Israel in a way that absolutely necessitated military response and their goal is to use the response in court of opinion to weaken Israeli alliances. That is also just undeniable. Be careful with social media accounts. There’s this temptation to think Reddit / TikTok / whatever are delivering unfiltered news from the ground but those are astroturfed like crazy by state level actors pumping out Palestinian propaganda. I would not want to suggest you review is you should read evey Israeli statement as gospel truth there’s obviously a slant. But you shouldn’t assume that the moment you find hyperbole or incorrect report it means that the side becomes entirely untrustworthy and by extension the other side becomes definitionally right. You are listing a whole lot of things but lets start with the first Shireen Abu Akleh Israel stated they shot near her and Palestinians shot near her and that they werent sure who shot her. This is true! Palestinian police never made the bullet available to check who shot her. Israeli internal investigations said it was quite possible they had done so. The US concluded that Israeli gunfire most likely hit her based on the Israeli investigation. I dont understand why you say that means Israel lied They said they werent sure and they might have. They werent sure. Thats truth Im having problems knowing exactly what bar needs to be met to change your mind since your post is basically saying you cant trust Israel and then listing a few instances some of which Israel lied about and some of which Israel decidedly *did not* lie about. Others are trying to tackle your points one by one so Ill try something different. If the bar is whether Israel never lies or makes mistakes nope nothing will change your mind since it does/has. If the bar is whether Israel is mostly truthful it is. If you think otherwise it would be prudent to say what sort of statistical analysis you performed over Israeli messaging in general that included both truths and lies. If the bar is whether its more truthful than Hamas or Palestinians in general... Boy oh boy. This isnt even in the same ball park and I think no amount of evidence could persuade you if you think otherwise. Hamas lies as policy and any non lie is the exception and not the rule. Many lies are so ridiculously over the top such as saying a leader is just fine for months before admitting he was killed in an attack. I hope youre not deluded enough to think this bar is one Israel doesnt pass. You’ve completely drunk the kool aid here. Qatar Hamas and the Muslim brotherhood spend billions on propaganda and news outlets to convince you of exactly this. Shereen Abu Akleh Israel said that they likely didnt kill her but that theyd investigate. Then they completed the investigation and found that they accidentally killed her. The 40 beheaded babies they also got Biden to lie about it Not the Israeli government but people responding and reporting on it being misinterpreted. There were beheaded babies and there were burned babies. But there werent 40 beheaded babies. The flour massacre A whole bunch of people ran on an aid convoy and were shot at by people protecting the aid convoy. This is a tragedy but also why you dont attack an aid convoy. Hamas stealing aid turns out an israeli funded gang did it Thats not true. Hamas has been stealing aid. Other groups have also been stealing aid. Theres been a lot of stealing aid. Which explains the fact that people were running at an aid convoy and that the convoys were heavily armed. The many many times of Palewood lies in which they later retacted/got debunked Lets have some examples. The numbers of Hamas millitants dead American intelligence and independent org says it is way less and the number they claim is actually the number of males 15 Youre just spitballing Hamas shooting people trying to get aid This literally happened. For the reasons listed above. Whoever controls aid controls the strip. Hamas losing control of the aid has led them to attack Gazans who are trying to get aid elsewhere and not pay Hamass exorbitant prices on food and supplies that should be free. The white phosphorus This didnt happen Some points of accuracy on some of your claims. 40 beheaded babies No Israeli source ever claimed this. An independent journalist erroneously made this claim early on. The Israelis claimed 40 children killed some beheaded. Final number of child casualties was around 36 so accurate. It is factually true that at least one child was found decapitated. Others were found dismembered. The Commission reviewed photos of the burnt skull of a decapitated woman found in Kfar Aza. The Commission also reviewed photos of a 12yearold girl who was shot in the head and then decapitated. A first responder working at a central identification centre for victims of 7 October told the Commission that containers with special bodies” were received at the centre. He explained that these bodies included the bodies of children with severed body parts. The centre also reportedly received bags of severed body parts. The fake AlShifa doctor wasnt from official Israeli sources just some social media poster. Hamas stealing aid. They do steal aid. Israeli funded gangs do too but Hamas absolutely steals aid. The AlAhli bombing was falsely reported as 500 casualties from Israeli munitions when in fact actual casualties were unknown likely far lower and the munition was likely a PIJ misfire. The Gaza MoH has published questionable numbers and has made false statements. The MoH also uses some fairly unreliable methods to report casualties google docs submissions and makes no distinction between fighters and civilians. Total numbers are claimed to be broadly accurate but civilian vs combatant ratios are not well known. This is war and with war comes propaganda. For some of these events you calling them Israeli lies implies that you have chosen to believe Hamas propaganda instead. For example Hamas stealing aid. This is not a lie and has absolutely been happening. There are videos of Hamas militants shooting people trying to receive aid. There’s a reason why Palestinians have been protesting against Hamas and many of them have been murdered for doing so. Israel lies” has simply become a convenient slogan for those on the antiIsrael train to shout whenever confronted with facts” I use that word lightly as I don’t think either side is ever going to present unaltered or noncherry picked information in the same vain that the MAGA crowd blames the news whenever you point of all of the shit that Trump has done. A key part of propaganda is causing your base to distrust the word of your enemy which is seen in both sides here. You’re just falling for the Hamas side in this case Not familiar with her name. 40 beheaded babies was never something that Israel has ever claimed. It literally was just romurs from lifeless ProIsraelis though babies HAVE been beheaded IDF unlike your sources released a statement saying that 10 Palestinians have been close to them in a threatning way so the opened in fire chaos happened and unfortunately as like in any war there were civillian victims Israel has never denied this. Huh? It was not fake LMAO unless your source is AlJazeera banned in both israelk and Palestine btw Hamas propaganda pull no source has ever confirmed this is fake It was a deadly mistake which happens in every war and the IDF soldiers responsible for that were immediately taken off service according to both Israeli and Palestinian sources. Lol. Hamas stole aid ENDLESS times. Which lies exactly? Gaza Ministry IS full of lies. Hamas is a totalirian regime and therefore every government ministry is directly controlled by them. Multiple times they have added names for more then 10 times on the same list recognised Men as Women and Children didnt spill casualties to terrorists and civillians as in international law cause theyre a terror group I mean accordingf to Hamas itself they lost a HUGE number and are missing people It did ? You cant trust anything because the Palestinian propaganda machine got to you. This is not a CMV but if you are trying to argue that it is somehow less credible than other sources from the war I would encourage you to look up all the lies that have been told by Hamas up till this point. Theyre very easy to find if you search. Look at all the casualty counts they walked back or the fake videos with repeated actors theyve put out just to name a few. Israel has independant journalism and left wing media. How do you feel you reached the objective truth on the matters you listed? I feel like you are mixing up 3 categories in the list. Actual Lies Unsubstantiated Rumors/Mistakes and Thing I claim are lies without any proof. For example the 40 beheaded babies claim that you claim Israel peddled was likely an unsubstantiated rumor a commander heard from one of his soldiers on October 7th and it was closer to 40 babies killed some beheaded. It was never actually an official stance. And claiming that Pallywood or Palewood was ever an official IDF stance is absurd. The alAhli hospital faked call is one of those Things I claim are lies. There is no evidence the call was faked and there is a LOT of evidence that the alAhli strike was both a misfire from Gaza and also that the casualty count was quadrupled after the fact. The only things of the list you gave where I feel theres actually good evidence that came from an actual lie by the IDF were the killing of AbuAkleh which was way before the war and the executed aid workers. A lot of these theres sufficient evidence are actually true. Your view literally if any other source and Israel saying different things i believe any other source and use it as proof that Israel is always lying. I mean Hamas stealing aid and gaza health ministry lies as example of Israel lies seriously? There arent only Jews in Israel In fact 21% of Israel isnt Jewish. Secondly saying that the people of a country who are in war and being constantly fed propaganda by their government cant be trusted is pretty sound logic. To be more specific I meant that in the context of the current conflict saying Israelis cant be trusted on it isnt antisemitic. War is full of propaganda. This is true of every war ever winning the global public opinion battle is a big part of every war. You can’t trust most of what the Palestinians are saying either especially if it came straight from Hamas. All you can do is find a third party news source you trust which is getting harder and harder or try to patch together the real story with videos and individual stories from both sides. How do you know you can trust the other side or the news youre consuming? This is a Gish Gallop with too many claims to counter effectively all at once so let’s take this one step at a time. The Israeli government never spread the 40 beheaded babies thing. When they released an official statement on it it was to say that it wasn’t true. Biden was a bumbling old man who said a lot of shit. Also you have been keeping up with the Israel Palestine conflict since you created your account. The way you say lately” makes it seem like you are just getting involved. And yet Israel is still less bad than the antisemites who have already done the worst ever ie industrial human extermination. I cannot change your view. But I do think it is important to remember there are no good guys in this war. Hamas opened this with a surprise attack and the murder and abduction of Israeli civilians a war crime by any measure. Israel responded disproportionately. Instead of retaliating against Hamas Israel.has punished the Palestinian people at large including civilians for Hamas attack. Iran uses Hamas and Hezbollah to prosecute a proxy war against Israel. The United States stands by Israel no matter what. Europe wrings its hands but does nothing. Other Gulf states voice support for Hamas but seem to offer little beyond thoughts and prayers. Highly reputable news sources like Reuters and AP reported about the strange findings they made when they analyzed the numbers that the Gaza ministry of health had been putting out for a while and came to the conclusion that they artificially bumped the numbers of dead women and children up only to correct them after a few months. I also remember being well awake looking at the live coverage of the supposed Israeli attack on the alAhli hospital where the Gaza ministry of health quickly released a recorded press conference/message in front of what seemed like a bunch of dead covered bodies claiming that it bad been an Israeli attack that killed about 500 people. This was immediately retracted and walked back just a few hours later as journalists could see the affected area in broad daylight realising that not only was the hospital not damaged but the actual missile/rocket had landed on a parking lot and of course no evidence of the 500 dead people that was initially reported. It was also later reported that the rocket did not come from the IDF but was a faulty rocket by PIJ. This isnt to say that Israel has been 100% transparent or truthful they obviously havent but this doesnt warrant any more legitimacy or credibility to Hamas and what they report. I’m genuinely not trying to make you feel bad but if you ever invent time travel and go back to 1994 please don’t go looking to the Hutus to give you reliable information about the Tutsi okay? Your reaction is understandable — there’s been misinformation from all sides. But it’s worth pausing to ask why does distrust flow so strongly in one direction which imo just shows how in this case powerful Hamas propaganda is. We live in a time where terrorist organisations are widely outpacing western societies in terms of media literacy in regards to spotting propaganda. Thats why theres such a worrying increase in radicalisations online. In other words these groups are well adapt to knowing which buttons to push. Add to that a very large dose of what i call residual colonial guilt in the west which means that a lot of people in the west are overly eager to push global conflicts into a oppressed v oppressor dynamic before they side with the underdog if you will. This may feel like doing something good but unfortunately the world is much more complex than this binary worldview the downside of this however are no less dangerous because it accelerates tribalism to the point where input that doesnt fit the preferred narrative is disregarded. We already have seen this with people disregarded any news that is remotely antipalestinian to the point where a lot of people seemingly are choosing to side with Hamas a literal terrorist organisation mind you over a functioning state. At the end of the day this is war. You shouldnt ever take any news coming from either belligerent at face value. Propaganda is just as important in times of war as weapons and ammunition. But ask yourself if you distrust Israel to the point you cant take any news from them seriously why the same doesnt apply to the opposite side if it does good you passed the media literacy check tho you only felt compelled to make a post about Israels untrustworthiness. However if not you may have to explore some biases you hold and why they exist. //Edit typos Youd best be just as suspicious of Hamas then because the outright propaganda and artificial statistics coming from them has been astonishingly unreliable. If truth is your goal beware of trusting either sides reporting. The 40 beheaded babies they also got Biden to lie about it Just for this one. This was not a result of Israel. It was the result of a mistake of a UK journalist taking two separate statements blending into one. There were two separate statements first being theyve found decapitated babies/children. And a second separate statement over 30 minutes later claiming theyve found over 40 dead children and babies. These two statements were blended into one statement of 40 beheaded babies which was the lie that swept around the world. The main counterpoint is at the bottom of most of the Palestine articles According to the Hamasrun health ministry.” The pipeline is this one for news Hamas sends their stuff to Al Jazeera Arabic the state media of Qatar famous for running on imported slavery then Al Jazeera English translates it into a more digestible form for westerners and then forwards it to larger media bodies. Their main source is listed as the Gazan Health Ministry which the large media bodies correctly attach to Hamas which long has been known to run it as well as UNRWAGaza to avoid legal liability. Meanwhile Israeli news is independent of the state so while you can expect proIsrael bias it’s not being actively tampered with or tailored by a government pipeline. Israelis may be suspicious of their own politicians and their own newspapers as opposed to their politicians themselves are still more reliable than the Gazan Health Ministry. yes but you never trusted Israel to begin with so what changed? I mean others have addressed much wider points but I think you dont know a lot of what your talking about and need to reassess if you dont know what Pallywood is as a term and think it refers to something *Israel* are faking. Pallywood is a term used by those claiming Palestinians are faking videos not Israel faking videos. Hamas shooting people trying to get aid Do you mean the recent story where the videos released after people had jumped to conclusions showed an entirely different story or something else? Hamas stealing aid turns out an israeli funded gang did it This seems an awful lot like youre just taking Hamass word for what Israel does without any critical thought. The gaza ministry of health being lies This is fairly well established given that wars do not have a linear increase in deaths yet thats exactly what the MoH reported during the entire war. Comparing to other conflicts it becomes evident that their data was made up. You can trust them to do and say what benefits them. This is war after all. Hamas hasnt been light on the propaganda either. Many people still dont believe the Axis of Resistance hides under apartment blocks Nasrallah or Hospitals Sinwar II or in refugee camps Dief despite the fact we have irrefutable proof that they do in the form of leadership having been killed there. How do you turn this into good analysis? Whenever Israel or Hamas admit something bad has happened to them or makes a comment that hurts them you can generally take that as the absolute floor. If Israel says the country has lost 62 soldiers in Gaza then we can safely assume Israel has lost *at least* 62 soldiers in Gaza. I used to be hugely antiisrael back in the day. I tried showing people links pics vids studies evidence everything to try and connect the dots for people and explain how fucked up israel and zionism was. Everybody pretty much 99% of people i ever talked to just thought i was a crazy lunatic antisemite and they completely supported Israel and zionism even after i mentioned non religious secular jewry who spoke yiddish were communist socialist and anti zionist. Even after i mentioned that Arabs are tehnically semites too. These days im an Israel supporter and a zionist. Because all the people who used to call me a crazy racist antisemite nazi are now saying daily how much they hate zionists and support palestine. The exact same people literally the exact same people that called me a crazy nazi antisemite conspiracy theorist when i tried to show them how fucked up israel and zionism was are now the ones protesting and complaining nonstop about the genocide in gaza. You cant make this shit up its so ironic. So now i just support israel and zionism why? Because its such a well executed plan you cant help but admite the determination of the people to take over the land. Its like watching timurid or genghis khan or attilla the hun you cant help but just marvel in awe at how perfect the entire set up is its like an azmazing game of chess where they just bided their time and set up politicians in positions of power funneled funds to just the right opposition groups. Who can operate on such a level? Who has the Chutzpah to decide to go through with this mad plan to try and starve and kill as many palestinians as possible and completely take over their remaining land in gaza and destroy their homes. While he entire worlds population sees it happen on camera? The whole thing takes a lot of planning a lot of intelligent people its a mass operation and it takes a huge amount of faith and resources and belief and perseverance its kind of like how the british empire tan its colonies or extirminated aboriginis in australia or how americans killed off most of the indians. I mean its fucked up as these things always are we live in what can be a fucked up violent world if you are on the receiving end of it and there seems to be no logic no rhyme or reason tk the violence. It was fucked up when Mao and the ccp started the great leap foreword The holodomor under stalin was fucked up. But you have to admire the drive of the people pushing through with it. Its not easy to slaughter other humans its not easy to be the bog bad guy and continue with a fucked up devilish plan to take over other peoples land and genocide them but you gotta admire the ones who stick with it for so long. Who knows how long the zionist faction of jewry has been planning stuff like this? It could have been hundreds of years in the making. To critisize zionists for their success is like critizing a japanese zaibatsu or a korean chaebol or a chinese caifa or an american plutocracy. Sure you can say what they are doing is fucked up and wrong but you cant help but admire their determination to see through a plan to bring peace and prosperity to their people/nation for years to come. So thats why i ended up supporting israel and the zionists on this one. It was no fun being antizionist before all of this started everyone just called me a crazy nazi conspiracy theorist antisemite. And now theyre the crazy conspiracy theorist antisemites😂😂😂 funny how life flips when the overton window shifts You’re not saying it explicitly but it sure sounds like you’re implying that Hamas is trustworthy and Israel is not. Or are you saying that you don’t trust anybody in this conflict? Who if anyone do you trust? Is your distrust unique to Israel? Please please please stop wasting everyones time and just copy paste it into chatGPT its good enough these days to give you what you want. I am not saying chatGPT is smart. I am saying chatGPT is smarter than YOU. The 40 babies line was actually said by a bbc reporter not israel. And the actual line was 40 babies dead some beheaded. Much of what you just wrote is completely false. You realize that literal AP reporters were holding kidnapped Israelis in their homes right? So much of what you think is true came straight from Hamas. Yeah... but... why trust Palestine? I mean... both countries are in middle of a war expect a ton of propaganda from both sides. Both sides are lying dont trust anybody. There is a phrase i really like that came from an engineer. The only one i trust is god the rest must bring evidence I assume you are referring to the Israeli government when you say Israel. On what basis did you determine that they lied? Are you reviewing their statements against some sort of conclusive evidence? Because it seems like you are not really basing this on anything at all. The 40 beheaded babies was a loss in translation. There was 40 beheaded and a baby not 40 beheaded babies Bostonian and fast attack submariner from 0514. I don’t care that Israel is our biggest ally in the Middle East” they’re full of shit. Israel is basically that asshole cousin who likes to sack tap/prank other people who don’t like him. Then when one stands up Israel hides behind us saying they’re picking on me. For the record I’m a non practicing/non believing Irish Catholic. Israel is a fuckin disaster as is Hamas. It’s wicked bad that we support Israel and yet send aid to the Palestinians in Gaza. That’s like saying we want you alive long enough for Israel to continue their clown show A lot of these views are the result of propaganda. For example it was NEVER the official stance of the Israeli government that there were 40 beheaded babies. Not once. No official government agency ever put out a public statement with the sole intent of tricking people into believing that. One independent media agency said it. That’s it. I don’t have time to go through every example but you should make sure it’s actually the Israeli government officially making the claim before accusing them of lying about said claim. Im at the point where I assume whatever the Israelis say the opposite is true. No other group has proven to be more devoid of morals or humanity than them. [removed] Plus\_Bison already made an excellent post with citations breaking down each aspect. I want to just reinforce a couple of things. 1. 40 beheaded babies As previously mentioned this was never actually a claim. Its stunning how popular its become. This was a real time case of international game of telephone. In the days and I mean days I think the original video is from Oct 9th a woman reporting in english stated that 40 babies had been beheaded. When going back to the original video the rough translation was that about 40 children had been killed some beheaded. Turns out about 40 children were killed. Some beheaded another tied up and burned alive others executed at point blank range. This was a time period where Israel was finding bodies strewn in random areas in Southern Israel they werent sure who was killed and who was kidnapped and there were still some Hamas insurgents taking potshots at Israelis. To say the scene was chaotic is an understatement now think about relaying reports over multiple languages. It seems weird that this is latched onto. Yeah after the murders of the Bibas boys the number of child deaths is 40. 2. Hamas stealing aid. As pointed out yeah no this one is known. Yeah some criminal gangs tried to steal some aid but you can go on social media and find posts from GAZANS cursing hamas for stealing aid. Not even Israels detractors fully argue this one. There are hundreds of videos and photos of masked gun men seizing aid and standing on the top of trucks. A young boy was shot trying to grab aid and it caused the killing of Hamas members by the boys clan. You had to buy humanitarian aid from Hamas and Hamas connected merchants at much higher prices. Again this is an area thats not really argued. 3. This would require more time than I have right now to gather citations but yes the Hamas Ministry of Health has been caught lying NUMEROUS times not just in this war 4. Its very hard in the best of times to gather an accurate kill count of the enemy. Go down a rabbit hole of how America tried to confirm enemy KIAs in Vietnam vs Afghanistan. We got better not counting the bodies of civilians so blatantly as combatants but its hard enough in a rural war. In an urban battlefield where the enemy openly films themselves fighting in civilian attire? Yeah it becomes VERY hard to provide accurate kill totals. There are ways to confirm some where combatants but not all. To wrap this up if youre saying you cant trust Israel automatically and dont even believe raw footage posted by Israeli accounts you may not actually be a nonpartial actor in this. [removed] [removed] [removed] Hamas has falsified casualties from the start been confirmed to be using hospitals and schools as cover for military activities still responsible for the start of this war Oct. 7th but somehow the Israelis are not trustworthy? Sure Jan If you dont trust Israel how can you trust hamas? I think a majority of the human population doesnt trust Israel. Its the US puppet state dependent on Uncle Sam for its existence and dont let people tell you otherwise. How about we work backwards from what has found to be true *multiple accounts that have been verified of rape occurring at the music festival with bodies verified to have been conveniently scorched. One 23 year old woman was beheaded and her headless corpse paraded through the streets of Gaza. *Hamas offered to return the hostages on October 8 only under the provision that Israel doesnt retaliate. *countless examples of schools hospitals and refugee camps used as operating bases weapons stores and launch sites for rocket attacks *Hamas repeatedly fighting in civilian clothing in contravention of the Geneva convention. *Hamas does steal aid and the fact we cant believe reports that the rape murder and beheading gang would steal aid over the what social media posts of some guys saying theyre employed by Israel? *If you take the combatant death toll as lying somewhere between US and Israeli accounts youre looking at anywhere from 13 14 combatant to civilian death ratio. And who are the trusted sources? Aljazira funded by the same country that helps fund groups like Hamas. UN bodies repeatedly found to be biased or having to walk back previous statements or affiliated bodies found to have Hamas militants as members. Or how about Europeans like the Irish PM who have said they need to reword the definition of genocide so they can apply it to Israel. But you clearly trust Hamas and their propaganda. You can just say you don’t like Jews CMV No one cares who you trust unless youre old Donny Picklefingers himself. Honestly I dont understand how people can be so naive to make these kinds of posts. Is it possible that at least a couple of these are miscontrued as lies. Its a complicated situation information isnt exactly super easy to confirm. Subtitles on videos are impossible to confirm except for fluent speakers and people will throw out any old video of a similar looking country and say it happened last week in gaza. I would lay the blame at the medias feet for their rush to the presses with every snippet and their need to hype each one up. Heres one 40 beheaded babies. On october 8th i was watching a report about the recovery and attack and they said things like there was evidence of torture in the majority of bodies one guy found one reporter was interviewing a soldier and he said he had seen babies and children murdered he guessed 40 and he also mentioned some or possibly a beheading. This is a soldier having a very bad day and describing a horrific attack. This got grapevined/telephoned into 40 beheaded babies. I have the benefit of seeing what i guess is the first instance of this particupar narrative developing. I think there was no lie told here at all and its just a miscommunication and subsequent media distortion/exaggeration. But you get that with every news source. That being said i would think its important to read or get the gist of the israeli spin as they will have their own spin of course and temper it against other sources so you know. And obviously having direct evidence i.e. video of an event before the narrative sets in is even more helpful. And then reserve judgment until the dust settles later on as as it happens journalism is generally garbage news facts get delayed while the story must come out now. That being said witness interviews on the ground are the opposite case where you want the information while its still fresh. Sidenote query Is it true that hamas never steal aid from the civilians? Or did it just happen to be this other group from this time Anyway media is going to media and well never be free of it. Blanket bans on sources is just putting blinders on but you have to reserve judgment and never take whats said at face value and that goes for any source. 2 year old account that comments almost exclusively on Israel/Palestine. Cool cool cool. I’m sure this persons” mind was def not made up before. Oct 7 was a horrific beyond belief attack that included both military targets and a large number of civilian target. A music festival was attacked and any israeli was summarily killed. Many villages were raided with the aim of killing every Israeli there including children. Don’t just say everything is a lie because you uncovered lies. It’s important people stop lying about 10/7. You can absolutely trust Israel but only when they say they’re going to a commit a war crime. That’s the only time their government tells the truth Yeah theyre just wrong theres no evidence hamas killed anyone. if you ignore the memento videos they took of murdered children and babies People like to proclaim Hamas are liars too. I dont doubt theyve lied at times but can anyone paint a track record of serial lying like Israel does? I dont see how. Israel lies at an orders of magnitude higher rate. There are structural reasons for this Hamas claims get strict scrutiny while Israels word is by default taken as true unless contradicted by clear video proof. Hamas cannot afford to lie like Israel. ... Right... where does Hamas gets the warm bodies from? You know recruitment. If The Narrative you believe and Israel supposedly just lying. That Means that Israel is just demolishing Buildings. As there are no efforts to get civilians out that means that for the last year and a half plus Israel is basically carpet bombing The Pupulation. *That Is What You Are Saying. Right?* So where is Hamas getting the warm bodies to join up? The Civilian Population is dead or injured right? Their Hospitals are basically rubble right? Where do they get recruites from? But then for a starving population they have *A lot* of overweight people and muscular people... So... Looks to me that youre believing that people. The first casualty of war is truth. We can’t believe anything that comes from either side really You shouldn’t trust anyone on anything at least in terms of war. Both Israel and Hamas are underreporting deaths in Gaza for Hamas mostly because of inability to accurately do it but also possibly to maintain morale somewhat for Israel to hide the extent of what they have done. Assess any reporting on war critically. I think reporting on war is maybe one area where corroborating reports between multiple news sources isn’t the best guide for if something is real and where instead just logically working out if something is feasible is better suited. On Israel and Palestine don’t trust the words of either government. Same for Russia Ukraine actually. Gee it us almost like you never heard the saying The first casualty of war is the truth. Are you aware that Israel was purposely founded with the intention of allowing Jews to not be trusted while not being killed for it? Antisemitism is so rampant that if Israel didnt exist the lies and criticism you would be seeing would be against jews and they would actually be defenseless. The west with its oppressive culture is the responsible for anything that Israel does now because their main and total focus is selfdefense and ensuring that jews have a safe place to not be targeted with antisemitic propaganda like the one you are saying instead of being killed and attacked. The more powerless you are against them the better Israel is. Every pragmatic measure they have learnt to take is ironically the Christian Europes fault. [removed] [removed] Thank you for being able and willing to think critically. It truly is stranger than fiction. Also the mass rape lie when in fact its Israel that is rapping Palestinians with metal rods. Hamas using people as human shield again thats Israel. An IDF soldier recently reported not a day went by that his army didnt use a Palestinian as a human shield. Every zionist accusation is a confession. Once you see it you cant unsee it. Thats why people are constantly going from being lifelong zionists to becoming antizionists. No one goes the other way around. Trump is a horrible Leader Im making a post challenging the concept that Donald Trump is a good leader not just in this country but in general. I am not talking about his actions in terms of his policy rather Im referencing how he acts as a person. 1. **Hes far more interested in sewing division than actually bringing unity to the other party and dissenters** Hes repeatedly calls Democrats as crooks with no basis he calls the press the Enemy of the people when they have the audacity to report the truth on him and he lumps any mild rhetoric against him as the The Extreme Left. Hes the least bipartisan president weve had in a century. Dont worry though theres plenty of accusations to go around if you are a Republican challenging his polices hell call you a traitorous RINO never mind that hes the biggest RINO in existence. 2. **There is no agree to disagree** Kind of tying to the first point but it seems like he can never just let go of things. To him he either likes you because youre doing something for him or he hates you because youre not. And it can flip on a dime. He famously called McCain a loser after his death just because of policy disagreements he mocked Faucci repeatedly at his rallies and then theres the recent Elon Musk fallout. And then theres the whole Election Fraud claims of course. 3. **He values loyalty over expertise** I dont even want to get into how dangerous this as a concept for this country but what this also tells me is that Donald has no faith bring able to lead with personal yes men. In order to be a leader you have to accept that not everyone is going to be on your side 100% of the time. Yet this guy cant even be bothered to even try to convince people why what hes doing is good. Hed rather do a purity test and fire qualified people because it hurts his feelings. 4. **He doesnt know how to handle problems without threat of force Cutting funds EOs or straight up using the military** For someone whos claims to be a successful businessman this dude straight up sucks at negotiating. For example even if I were to believe that single one of our allies is screwing us over in trade what good does it do to pass off our allies by insulting but more importantly threatening then with economic or military force. He also constantly escalates to either threatening or using violence. When the looting starts the shooting starts. All this does is escalate tensions and everyone including people in his first administration tries tl tell him this but he just ignores it. If I have one point to make in all of this post is this If you have to constantly use force as a way to get what you want youre a dogshit leader. 5. **There is literally no empathy** To me one of the most defining moments of Trumps character on video is after the DC crash one of the the reporters asked if hell visit the crash site. A pretty innocuous question. He gets flippant and says What am I going to do swim? Say whatever you want about Bidens mental state but even in Bidens supposed confusion he would definitely be able to try to say something positive unifying and presidential. Its indicative of his character. Trump cant even be bothered to even lie and say something nice on camera and just not follow through on it. Lets not also forget that with this same incident he said the crash was a result of DEI *before the bodies were even cold.* He takes no accountability and has no regard for anybody who isnt himself. Hes far mpre concerned eith how he is viewed as president than the actual work needed to be viewed as such. If anybody can provide examples of him being a good leader for people who dont innately praise him im open to changing my view. I think President Trump is a horrible president but I think you can make an argument that hes a good leader so long as you equate good with effective and not with being a leader that effects net positive change for our society. 1 He knows how to communicate to his base to get them to agree with him. Whether thats through turns of phrase or by creating ingroup outgroup dynamics or outright lies his messaging or propaganda is effective for the people hes trying to reach which if not a majority of Americans is at least a sizable minority. And the people who like him like him A LOT. That means that theyll provide support and perhaps do things they would otherwise not do to protect him his leadership and his policies. This is the same playbook that lots of charismatic leaders have used for centuries. 2 He gets stuff done. Many followers look to leaders to be effective and that means actually doing things. Trump actually does things. Does he have the legal authority to do it? Maybe or maybe not. Will the process harm our democracy? Probably. Will the things be a net positive for the country? Unlikely. Will they be a net positive for the people who support him? Mmmm... jurys out. *Do his people think that what hes doing will be a net positive for them?* Almost assuredly. Which foments even more loyalty. Getting things done that your people want done is what people want in a leader. 3 His command style resonates with people who feel like they have no control over their lives or their destiny. The American economyheck even American existence is extremely complex and a morass of factors most of them out of an individuals control affects someones economic success and personal circumstance. People want answers and want simple answers and want someone to look like theyre taking control. Trump provides that again fomenting loyalty which gives him further mandate to take more unilateral action. Most of the things you mention division polarization winning at all costs loyalty at all costs bullying lack of empathy dont necessarily make someone an ineffective leader. They may make someone a sociopath a sycophant or an egomaniac. Decisions made by such a leader may result in negative outcomes especially from the outgroup not represented by the leader. So if your definition of a good leader means the person creates outcomes that are net positive for the whole community then yeah you are probably right. But a good leader doesnt necessarily have to create positive outcomes for the whole communitya good leader can just be an effective leaderfiguring out how to most effectively do what his followers want him to do and/or convincing his followers that what he wants to do is what they want him to do. And Trump has certainly succeeded in that metric. [removed] [removed] Your assertions of what constitutes good leadership are entirely subjective. Im not saying I disagree with you but there are plenty of people out there who think sowing division and suppressing dissent is a good thing the threat of force is always necessary and both compromise and empathy are weaknesses. To such people having unflinching control over everything is far more important than even competency. Unfortunately the reason I dislike Trump is exactly why I consider him a good leader. See I believe in efficiency. I like social safety nets because they efficiently improve everyones quality of life and morale. I like liberal economic positions because they efficiently help the economy. I dislike Republican positions on things like criminal justice healthcare and finance because they are inefficient at achieving any stated goals. So now we look at Trump. He has been more successful than any president in a century at achieving his goals and Im talking extremely radical goals that others wouldnt be willing to even try. He is RUTHLESSLY efficient. Since I tend to rate things on efficiency hes a phenomenally good leader. If the positions he was making happened to match my own I might still have problems with his naked corruption but I would be pretty happy with the actual outcomes. He’s not a good leader morally but he is socially. He’s objectively good at making people listen to him and like him. He has charisma and he knows how to convey what he wants to say. This is a good quality to have as a leader despite him lacking other characteristics of being a good leader. Ill reuse my favorite phrase to describe him stolen from another redditor that I wish I could tag I forgot the username along the way. Trump is the wrong answer to the right question. Overall there have been a lot of issues ignored or swept under the rug/can kicked down tbe road for years and decades. 1 Illegal immigration has long been an issue and while its a cornerstone of Republicans many Democrats have long felt it was a serious issue. Famously Obama and Hillary both talked about how important a strong border is. Clinton added a huge swath of the existing wall on the US/Mexico border during his presidency. Heck I didnt even know there were already hundreds of miles of wall existing before Trumps 1st administration until I read an article about the cost in WSJ. We can argue all day long on whether theyre a net benefit or not but ultimately its an issue that is a top priority for a lot of people on both sides. Love him or hate him his first term he tackled illegal immigration In a very blunt manner. This time around hes amped up to about 50. 2 The Economy. The man uses tariffs as his one trick pony. It would he hilarious if it wasnt sad. But while Bidens Chips act would bring in a couple billion in investment the total number of jobs was tiny. Forcing labor and manufacturing back to the US would create new jobs. And more importantly Covid showed us how easily trade can be disrupted. If we really are going to protect Taiwan then well very likely have trade with China disrupted much worse than what we recently experienced or what we saw during Covid. It would be better if we could spread out what we import but having something within our borders is pretty important too. And if it really is going to happen in the next 510 years as many predict unfortunately we would need to start this process immediately. Trumps extreme approach could potentially push that to happen quickly unlikely though. As an added bonus some manufacturing has crossover into other areas. During WW2 a lot of factories and manufacturing was pivoted to war materials easily because sometimes welding rivets metal processes are similar enough that training someone with similar experience is a breeze. If we need to ramp up production of aircraft or ships better to have a large pool to pull from. 3 Europe in general. Very recently articles have come out showing much if Europe is struggling to arm themselves and to fill their military ranks. This is after years and years of the US asking and never mind Russia attacking Ukraine. Similar to reshoring jobs these are countries that we would have to rely upon if China did attack Taiwan. They have a huge fleet and 4 times as many people as the US. Russia would either be someone we would have to also deal with or it would fall upon our European allies to do the heavy lifting if we faced a 2 front at least war. If those same allies are facing shortages of men and material even when they themselves are ringing the alarm that Russia may invade more countries then theyre proving theyll be useless in a real fight. And while I recognize their contributions in Afghanistan and Iraq it would pale in comparison to Russia actually attacking Europe. If after several presidents and a Russian invasion they still were not actively building up to the levels we had requested the only alternative is to rip the bandaid off. The US hasnt said we wont help our allies if theyre attacked but it took the assumption we wont for them to finally scramble to do something. These are 3 examples. I think there were issues here that needed fixing. I think hes done all 3 wrong. But if youre looking for a leader to address these issues and no one else has then to many this marks a good leader. Besides thanks to him talking out of his ass helped Canada elect a more competent and moderate member of Trudeaus side of politics. Trudeau had a lot of issues but this new guy sounds actually competent. Without Trump blustering there was a small but real chance theyd have their own Trump like PM. To quote a Canadian in a different sub theyve at least got that to thank Trump for. I have to disclaim this with the statement these are not necessarily my personal views but in the spirit of this sub all of your points can be argued. —————— 1. You say he is more interested in division. He is a man of conviction. He holds his own beliefs regardless how you feel about them and he stands by them even when seen as wildly unpopular by half of the country. Conviction is a virtue of a good leader. 2. See above 3. This is just wrong. Trump consistently fills positions with people he’s been at odds with in the past and some may say he even shows a cold shoulder to those deemed loyal to him. Just look at his choice of VP. 4. He uses the leverage his position of power grants him. This was a major major criticism of Biden. He had power and he did not wield it not even quietly. 5. You may be right that he lacks empathy but your example is a terrible one. I hate the shit out of agent orange but he’s a great leader. He’s managed to recruit enough followers to take on the United States and he’s winning. He has no morals or empathy but has this magical ability to control people and use them to achieve his goals. I’m in awe that he has total control over all 3 branches of government and is being allowed to destroy American society and hurt Americans any way he wants. Look at how he commands the republicans in Congress. There’s a shocking lack of dissent from even a single one of them. They must know that they took an oath to protect against the very thing they are assisting that they are bringing shame to themselves and their families that countless heroes died protecting freedom and they are so cowardly they’re willing to give it away. Imagine for a minute that his goals aligned with yours. Imagine if he spread peace and love around the world while breaking down the structures that have restrained them. What if he wanted to take in income inequality and would relentlessly peruse the rich to contribute and end poverty. If he wanted those things I would be marching behind him. Unfortunately we got the shit head doing all the leading and the ones we follow are writing Bernstein letters. Sewing is thread and cloth. Sowing is the act of planting. Sometimes people sow discord or strife. Sometimes people sow carrot seeds and those carrots become large and orange. Some carrots get worms and the worms consume the carrots. Or the carrots simply become rotten and putrid in the field. Sometimes even a vegetable can become significant in history. The potato became blighted and caused the Irish potato famine. Many Irish Catholic immigrated to the United States because of the rotten potatoes. People in America hated Irish immigrants. People in America hated most immigrants because they had already immigrated and didnt want the competition. Native Americans hadnt immigrated in 10000 years so they welcomed the first immigrants they encountered. Sometimes acceptance isnt received with love and respect. Hatred is a strong drug that coalesces actions otherwise normal people would be ashamed of. Too many carrots will turn you orange and sometimes cause metabolic imbalance leading to derangement. Any hawk is still a hawk. The son of the son of the son of an SOB is usually still an SOB be he orange or be he red. I really have no comment on the president but I do know a vegetable when I see one. Sorry I was off topic today. There are many many people that think empathy is not only weakness but actually a bad thing. This doesnt mean that someone should not feel sympathy but the definition of sharing the feelings of someone via empathy is thought to cloud judgement and pragmatism For more than a decade Ive been told that illegal immigration is an unsolvable problem. Within a month of taking office almost nobody is sneaking over the border anymore. He is able to solve problems even problems that are preached to be impossible to solve. It has been reported by many people that he is compassionate in real life. Trumps compassion shows through with the Russia/Ukraine war. He genuinely wants to bring an end to the conflict. And as a matter of fact your point 4 I largely agree with and it may well keep us out of nuclear war. I dont trust Trump I trust his cowardice. We should be talking to the Russians. We have civilization ending arms pointed at one another. Trumps doing that. Voted against the idiot multiple times absolutely detest him but realitys reality. It doesnt seem like you want your view changed. Out of curiosity why should he care what people think of him or what their opinions are when they have called him everything from Hitler to treasonous? How do you feel about his selection for a pardon czar given the high incarceration and unconstitutional treatment of citizens stemming from the failed War On Drugs.” It is the hubris of arrogant people to try to federally restrict” nature and henceforth has led to millions of good people suffering long term unfair consequences. I disagree with the statement that trump has zero empathy. Just starting with #1 consider that from the moment he announced his candidacy the entire Democrat machine threw every bit of its political and financial power towards destroying him. That meant painting him as a racist and every other ist as well as his family. They spent the better part of a decade trying to destroy him only to end up in a historical defeat and creating the most powerful presidency in our lifetime. Surely we all see the game here. Call candidate racist or whatever the negative thing is at the time. For Romney it was sexist. They even called McCain racist. Now the left voters have been calling the candidate racist for a time so it shifts to calling all the supporters racist. And a decade later its commonly accepted to blanket everyone on the right as Nazi say they are morally corrupt that this won’t be forgotten” to wear identifying jewelry and clothing so you don’t get mistaken as conservative and to expel conservatives from your life both family and friends. That’s the actual division that’s been sewn. When they used things like racism as political talking points instead of actual issues they pit citizens against each other. You might not like him or what he’s doing but he’s doing what he said he was going to do. He’s also in control of what he’s doing he doesn’t have Elizabeth Warren running around signing legislation with an electro signature. Most of the points you listed mention a lack of compromise and and a lack of kindness from Trump’s leadership. I would argue that neither of those traits are what make someone a good leader. Trump has a vision he outlined when he was running for president and he hires people who agree with that vision to be in his cabinet. You call that valuing loyalty over expertise” but that loyalty is needed in order to get executive action done. Remember in his first term that there were plenty of people in his party and in his cabinet who dropped out or turned on him—this resulted in a lot of talk from Trump in the first term but not a lot of actual policy getting implemented. I would say he’s learned from the mistakes of the first term that loyalty is necessary in order to push an agenda as president. In terms of partisanship I’d again point back to the first term. 3 years of being investigated for Russian collusion by the Democratic Party getting impeached by the democrats lawsuits getting called a felon and a foreign agent etc etc. Why would Trump waste any time trying to appeal to both sides? The left isn’t going to support Trump no matter what he does. Trump recently federally recognized the Lumbee tribe and my local subreddit that one would expect to support such an action instead responded with conspiracy theories that he’s somehow going to profit off that action. Why would Trump attempt to appeal to people like that? That’s an exercise in futility and his time is better spent appealing to the people in his party and the people in the middle. On your last two points you have to understand that a lot of world leaders aren’t very nice and empathetic people. You need someone who is tough maybe even a bit mean to negotiate with people like Putin Xi Jinping and Netanyahu. These are powerful world leaders who would take advantage of a pushover president and at a time when there are multiple wars going on that the US has financial and/or social investment in we need someone who is capable of being unempathetic in the interests of America. Dont get me wrong hes a shitty person but some of the things you said could go both ways for the other side AKA the Democratic Party. Just like the Republicans the Democratic party is guilty of their own fear mongering and division. For Republicans its all white people are under attack antiAmericans are invading the country and they wanna take all your guns. For Democrats its every minority is under constant threat of white supremacy the police are hunting anyone with darker skin and if youre an immigrant you have to fear getting deported. The immigrant thing I mentioned is especially prevalent now as it was 9 years ago which is bizarre to me because those who are not immigrants/immediate descendants of immigrants seem to have a difficult time understanding that not every immigrant is illegal and that a good chunk of them do come in the legal way and have nothing to worry about. Ive been on both sides before and can tell you that fear mongering/division is how both sides get their votes. Aside from my whole rant about that there are other policies of Trump that sound good on paper such as the tariffs but were implemented poorly if Im being honest. For example why are we putting tariffs on Japan when they have minimal tariffs on us especially when Japanese built cars are superior to cars built anywhere else in the world? Its a disservice to Americans imo. Then you have the plain old bad. You had him enlisting Musk some rich CEO that supported him as the overseer of DOGE which was a very questionable choice. Then you have him being too weak on Russia and Putin which just makes Trump look stupid and weak given that Russia is a very real threat to every country in their vicinity. Im so tired of hearing about stoking division. First of all if anybody does this its the left. Theyve built their entire current political platform on dividing the population into their identities and advocating for them differently. How is that going to inspire unity. Secondly theres a big difference between stoking division and simply being the object of anger. There was a case in the UK just a little while ago where someone got convicted of religiously aggravated public order offence. Essentially he burned a Quran in front of the Turkish embassy in London. The judge specifically said because the act was provocative. If we peel back the layers a bit he was essentially convicted because the Muslims around him couldnt control their anger and were prone to be violent and disrespecting their religion in public could incite violence. Talk about bigotry of low expectations. This is whats happening in LA too. Ive heard so much about look at all this violence under the Trump admin like... yeah. Way to point out that conservatives dont riot in the streets when they dont get their way. Essentially Trump is being blamed for the violence in LA because him existing pisses people off so it must be his fault. Zero accountability for the people burning cars and throwing bricks. If youre in LA right now rioting youve got to stop. All ICE is doing is enforcing the law. Dont like it? Change the law. Dont have the votes to change the law? Sucks thats the democratic process. Funny how democracy is only important to these people when they win. When they lose they try to intimidate and bully America into getting their way. Im not a fan of trump but honestly I think the democrats are 10000x worse. Just look at what they did with the border trans ideology dei. Ill take the stupid cheeto man over them ANY day. Now realise the traits youve just described align closely with five of the nine DSM5 criteria for Narcissistic Personality Disorder... Trump is a grandiose narcissist through and through. It explains pretty much all his behaviour. He doesnt care about leadership. He cares that hes seen as the best a winner famous and in the headlines. And if things dont go his way he rejects reality and substitutes his own. If youre not providing him with his narcissistic supply youre an enemy and must be destroyed/discredited. Unless you can supply again and then all is forgiven. Or vice versa. Made a wrong decision? Never it was 9D chess and he meant to do the opposite all along and youre just too dumb to understand. Facts dont matter. Only his reality counts whatever that is currently consistency is no prerequisite . I disagree. I hate Trump and you are correct he is a selfinterested narcissist who does not give a single shit about his cultists but that doesnt mean he has not been incredibly successful in utterly dominating the GOP and reshaping it in his image. The GOP is completely in his thrall the GOP base is literally cultlike and he even rewards violent cultish loyalty with pardons. This is the dude whose followers were all over Pizzagate... while ignoring that Trump was literally a friend of Epstein and flew on his Lolita Express. Trump has been an excellent leader because a cult leader is still a leader and he is an excellent cult leader One of the rules of this sub is that you genuinely are interested in changing your views. Are you honestly open to that? The primary quality of a true leader is to lead. That he can galvanize people and move the organization towards the direction of their choosing. A leader that simply continues going in the set direction might be Mr. Nice guy but is no true leader. Trump like it or not is steering the country towards where *he* wanted to go with a very substantial percentage of the country willing to follow him. I don’t like Trump but I can see where you’re getting him wrong. You’re misunderstanding *”his mindset”* and mistakenly assuming that your state of mind maps neatly onto his state of mind. I want you to play pretend for a second and just imagine yourself playing the part of a leader in a *super messed up* hypothetical situation. Imagine right before the events that kickstarted WW2 took place you swooped in led a rebellion against Hitler and are now the leader of Germany. But you took power through force. Germany is like *full on Nazi* at this point. Camps happened tons of Jews are dead regularass civilians helped facilitate it but the news isn’t global and no war started. Now being that person you’re trying to Save Germany” and Save the world” from the Nazis. Like 30% of your population are straightup Nazis 40% are sort of middleground go with the flow” indecisive types and the other 30% are on your side. What would be your strategy in unifying Germany and culling the threat of a Nazi uprising? Is it not perfectly logical to demonize the everlivingfuck out of the 30% Nazis don’t care what so ever if they hate you and only focus on maintaining the support of your supporters and Changing the general vibe/atmosphere of the nation” to shift towards antiNazism. In an attempt to get the indecisive people to vote against” the Nazis? Maybe they don’t like you but they **hate** the Nazis so much more that they’ll vote for you the lesser of 2 evils” in their minds? This is Trump’s mindset. Right or wrong. He views the modern Left as disgusting and as deranged as the rest of the world views the Nazis. And if you want to get really cynical. He views the left the same way Hitler viewed the Jews as something that needs to get destroyed/dismantled. There’s nothing *odd or illogical* about what he’s doing. Any normal person would do it if they had that mindset”. If you were that person that overthrew Hitler right before WW2 I’m sure you would do the same. It’s perfectly good leadership. It sits on a false premise. But it’s still logically coherent”. [removed] Thank god people are talking about this as a none American I love watching American politics because they are so funny to me sometimes I genuinely wonder how half these people even made it to where they are in life with the amount of stupidity they possess [removed] [removed] You may not approve of his messages demeanor or decisions but he is absolutely an effective leader. The fact that MAGA exists means he is influential and has an ability to sell himself and gather followers. He has convinced people to blindly follow him in spite of so many scandals. He knew who to lead and how to get them on his side. A lot of what you put in your post can be subjective and therefore spun into different ways. As pointed out in other comments some of what you describe as deficiencies will be lauded by Trump haters while being spun as virtues by Trump supporters. My opinion of a reliable litmus test for effective leadership boils down to Leaders break new ground. By that metric Trump is more about disruption and less about moving things forward toward a clearly articulated vision. His plans are trite and combined with his distain for expert advice really makes it hard for new ideas to be discussed and therefore brought into reality. He really isnt a champion for anything particularly novel or visionary he is really just operating under the general idea that government is bad lets stop it from doing things. When you look at a large group of people that follow Trump I dont think its because he is providing them a vision. I think its because he makes them feel better about themselves and validates their own narrow simplistic view of the world. Hes popular hes influential hes disruptive but is he an effective leader? Not so much IMO. [removed] Trump is a great leader if you ignore all of the bullshit being promoted by the media and the Democrats right now. 98% of Reddit cannot do that though. I disagree with Trump’s politics wholeheartedly and I don’t see his appeal at all. That being said to play devil’s advocate he is a generational political figure. If he lives through his term he will be on the leading figure of a major and through most of his time in office the majority political party in the United States for longer than FDR was. He has remade the Republican Party entirely in his image and there is a case to be made that it will be that way long after he’s gone. His loyalists as has been well documented will stick with him no matter what. He is a master manipulator of the media able to get them to focus on sensationalist stories and scandals rather than to focus on what really matters. His second term administration is scarily reshaping our government in ways that may take decades to undo. Is he a leader I think people should follow? Absolutely not. But he is a defining political leader of a generation and will be studied in the history books for years to come. [removed] [removed] My friends who voted for him would probably say they don’t always like his style or everything he does but on balance he is bringing the country away from liberal excesses and that is creating more good than bad. Specifically reducing reverse discrimination by dismantling DEI reducing government size/bureaucracy reducing government mandates on US citizenslike pressure to have covid vaccines or masks reducing illegal/uncontrolled immigration. They think checks and balances mid terms supreme court will keep him from going too far. They’d say on balance he’s being effective no leader is perfect and he’s better than Harris would have been because she would generally be heading in the opposite direction. If you think horrible” is leading people to a place you’re opposed to there’s probably no changing your mind. If horrible” means being ineffective at reaching goals that close to half of Americans agree with he’s not horrible so far. If Democrats want to win elections so we don’t end up with people like Trump they have to come across as less extreme to many voters. The right has Jan 6. The left has Oct 7. One of these had a much higher body count... The lesser of two evils and all that [removed] Election is over so many sore loosers these days. It feels to me most people would think of all this positively if they agreed with Trumps positions. If leadership is defined by followers youre simply wrong. Ill argue that hes a good leader even though will 100% disagree with my own argument. Most importantly in a stagnant democracy like Americas where issues and problems are repeatedly introduced reintroduced but never actually solved conclusively Trump gets shit done. He said he was going to deport millions of immigrations. *Thats what hes doing*. He said he would make other countries pay their fair share by rectifying the trade deficit. *Hes doing that too*. He said hed be seek retribution for conservative censorship what Biden did generally but especially concerning open borders and covid and much more. He said hed hold those people accountable. *That too hes doing.* Part of the appeal of Trump as a leader is everything you listed as being a good thing. Who needs empathy to get stuff done? Who needs to waffle between compromises with agree to disagree? And why shouldnt he threaten force all time? When has any of that stuff worked before and allowed those involved to make the sweeping overarching changes that Trump is doing? Your list of characteristics are those required to be an *effective* leader in terms of the U.S. gridlocked government. Im not going to change your mind about Trump but I will question how you define leader. Trump has managed to take a country that was a bit all over the place politically and rally a huge amount of the population under his banner. He might be pushing the US towards fascism but hes doing it with the support of a lot of people. So if you define leadership as doing whats best for the people I dont believe Trump is a good leader. If you define leadership as the ability to motivate people to act even if those actions arent in the peoples best interests then Trump is a great leader. Donald Trump is not a leader. Being a leader is more than having people who follow you. And there absolutely *are* people who follow Trump. But to be a leader you have to be going somewhere. You have to have a path. Leading requires the foresight and intent to take others to a destination. Trump does not have any goal in mind for the people following him. He only has the vague desire to enrich himself but with no actual path chosen. He acts in an entirely reactionary way without any kind pf forethought just doing whatever happens to be in his head in the most immediate possible sense. The people chasing after him are useful to him and he feeds on their admiration but again he has no intent to take them to any place either literally or metaphorically. He just wants to get rich. He wants praise. He wants. He *WANTS*. And that is it. There is no leading even if people happen to follow him. Its president trump put some respect on his name [removed] He is the leader that America forged. Years of social injustices for portions of its citizens societal biases in every system nepotism over merit and lest we forget prioritization of wealth over all. He is the penultimate manifestation of everything we know goes on and is wrong yet refuse to acknowledge or correct in our society. much of it is that his base has extreme difficulty admitting when they are wrong like him. That is a leaders greatest strength. Is to admit when they are wrong. They wont be right all of the time or possibly even a majority of the time but what matters if they are right when it really matters... Which takes incredible humility. [removed] A leader leads a group willing to follow. As long as people follow and benefit then he is a good leader for them. So unless you are one of the followers who benefit he will always be bad. The question isn’t whether or not he is a good leader to you it’s whether or not he is good for them. There have been several presidents that were horrible leaders even though they were essentially good people who meant well but were flawed. With Trump hes just pure evil to the core as a president as a father as a husband and as a person. I could simply argue he’s a great leader for all the reason you say he’s bad. He rallies folks to completely ignore their values he can convince people that his own positions from 6 minutes ago were wrong and they’ll follow him blindly. There’s a huge difference between being a leader and governing. And there’s quite a few differences between what type of leader you want to be. He wants credit and adulation. For it all. The fundamental thing that nonTrumpers dont get is given our polarized ossified twoparty system its not necessarily that Trump is loved because hes so amazing or a great person but that they have such deep disdain/revulsion/sense of betrayal for the Democrats and everything they represent that Trump is *by comparison* amazing\*.\* The rest of this post is really elaborating on that fundamental point which libs have a very tough time appreciating because of their own biases/bubbles. But trying to take your points in turn and in good faith 1. Trump is so divisive to the nonDem POV aka depending on what you prioritize and your media diet the Dems are even more divisive! Open borders policy looking down on flyover country and the religious prioritizing gender ideology over the economy espousing hatred of police and our armed forces and America itself — do you not see why some might view this crock of views as more divisive than what Trump serves up? 2. Trump holds grudges and changes his mind on a whim I also find this distasteful but if you think the other side wants to trans your kids and is down to import 40 million Venezuelans to steal your blue collar job this becomes irrelevant. Also Dems have flip flopped on so many issues mostly because Trump was for or against it see Operation Warp Speed or Elon or caring about the debt 3. Loyalty expertise in Trumpistan one of my main critiques of Trump! That said the Democrats have also almost totally lost the plot on technocratic management compared to the Obama years. And if you think the Joe Biden regime relied more on advice of expertise vs blind loyalty well read Original Sin and think about the lengths to which Biden + DNC squashed any sense of primary competition. Indeed Team Biden still hasnt apologized for throwing the election 4. Trump is bad at geopolitics and macroeconomics and too forceful for my tastes Again no disagreement on balance but compared to Biden and leaving aside the tariff issue thats just unhinged and every economist aside from Navarro in Trumpworld knows it its not super clear cut especially if there are certain domains you prioritize more than others. Biden totally fucked up Afghanistan has no better a record than Trump on Israel/Palestine or Russia/Ukraine or China or NATO military spending so far did nothing to address Americas fundamental economic weaknesses debt / entitlement reform etc. And Biden absolutely broke precedent in using presidential powers to go after some of his political enemies. I too wish Trump were less willing to use force in domestic matters but also a lot of Americans think he shouldve used more force to prevent the looting/rioting of summer 2020 which Dems embraced or excused bc identity politics 5. Trump lacks empathy for the people and causes you care about sure. If youre instead motivated by respect for military/police respect for \[insert any group the Dems love to hate on\] you might see things differently. Also again Im no Trump fan but I loved Trumps answer about the plane. Hes the president what good does is accomplished in him wasting a morning to visit the crash site and do a photo op with victims families? He didnt crash the plane. I would like more warmth from the POTUS and less trolling e.g. DEIcausedthecrash was total libbait hook line and sinker! but such is the state of our politics nowadays. Tougher task but you also asked about examples of him being a good leader. Off the top of my head I got nothing other than him frequently consoling families of service members lol hope this was onpoint enough you bring up so many critiques that its tough to address them all. But fundamentally yes Trump not ideal and Republicans will generally say this but if you think the other side is so much worse you support whomever is closer to your worldview. He isnt a leader. He mugs at cameras while Steve Miller and others use his auto pen. Thats why he accused Biden of it. He was doing it. Accusation in the Mirror It isn’t by chance that someone gets elected to the U.S. presidency twice and even more unusual they come back after losing their second election 3 elections total. Be reminded that Reddit and most liberal coastal cities are massive bubbles who are incapable of understanding why Trump resonates with so many Americans. Which is deeply ironic given everyone claiming to be educated”. As for your points lack of empathy can actually be a positive thing in a leader. Many American leaders are very weak especially on foreign policy. Make no mistake our enemies China Russia Iran etc. only understand force and nothing else. I believe Trump is capable of using force as needed to coerce bad actors to behave. Biden was incredibly lukewarm. We need leaders who aren’t afraid to take bold action and work without concensus. America’s enemies have made themselves as clear as day. Let’s not waste time discussing human rights” and endless litigation when it’s clear Iran wants nuclear weapons or China seeks to invade Taiwan and illegally expand their control of the Pacific Ocean. As for your first point yes the media is incredibly biased against Trump. If all you read was New York Times you’d think Trump must have been illegally elected. NPR where I live demonizes Trump to a point it’s humorous. Hyperbole and exaggeration is used excessively with Trump to the point it’s boy cry wolf. There was a Muslim ban”. OK why didn’t Trump ban people from Egypt or Saudi Arabia two of the largest Muslim countries in the world ? Even Google searching it folks like ACLU are still calling it a Muslim ban. Which is patently false because the vast majority of Muslim people could still come to the U.S. Most of the ban were enemy countries who happened to be majority Muslim. Only free and opensource software should be allowed in education. Nowadays were all slaves to big tech. And I dont mean social media. Everything we do be it workrelated or not is through proprietary software developed by those companies. Every spreadsheet on every business is done on Excel. Every slideshow on Powerpoint. Every book and piece of news is written on Word. And if its not MS Office its Googles stuff. Every CAD project well most on AutoCAD. Are you an artist or graphic designer? You probably use Photoshop or Illustrator. CorelDRAW if youre a bit different. Are you a video editor? Then its probably Final Cut Resolve or Premiere. All proprietary. Were it not for Mozillas Firefox Google would essentially have free reign to influence the webs functioning through Chromes monopoly on the browser market. Their chokehold on the internet is so absurd they have to pay Mozilla to avoid being antitrusted. Even this bastion of free software is reliant on them. Blender is one of the few FOSS projects that has wide acceptance. Our entire societies and governments revolve around a few companies software. We are all taught how to use Windows and maybe \*maybe\* MacOS from childhood. After all its what the labor market requires us to know. This forms a vicious circle in which we are eternally chained to Microsoft Google Apple Adobe and so on because free software is constantly painted as inferior as a stupid nerdy thing and denied the resources to compete with them. Now we see Google and Microsoft becoming ever more prevalent in education offering their suites and Classrooms at a discount to schools and universities doing so at a loss. Painting themselves as benefactors when what theyre really doing is keeping society addicted and dependent on them. We shouldnt be using Google Classroom we should be using Moodle. Not Chromebooks Linux laptops. Not MS Office LibreOffice. Stop this technological grooming. Edit digital education should teach freedom and ownership of your evermoreimportant digital existence. Not reliance on massive corporations softwarewise. I mean theres no escaping from hardware companies I sense the crux of this opinion lies on a much larger philosophical stance you might have on capitalism and the ethics of closed source. If that’s the case I think it’s a bit disingenuous to ask us to change your view on a narrow topic when to properly tackle it we would have to change your entire world view on ethics and economics. That said I’ll give it a try. I’m in the engineering field and I have used many closed and open source versions for various softwares Fusion&ampAutoCAD vs FreeCAD Photoshop vs Gimp Eagle&ampAltium vs KiCAD MatLab vs Octave Excel vs Libre. If we as a society were to make a transition whether forced or not into open source options I think we must consider two things 1. Most open source counterparts are seriously lagging their closed source versions on features that are ABSOLUTELY needed in industry and thus on education. 2. Some vital closed source software don’t even have an open source alternative. Now I can imagine you saying that as we start a transition into open source we will see them starting to improve and catching up to closed source versions. I also think that’s obvious and that it would be greatly beneficial to the world. However some of the things that make closed source softwares great are their trade secrets. If you are serious about making open source viable you would eventually have to eliminate people’s right to privacy and FORCE them to share any and all inventions and ideas they have. Additionally to that you gotta have in mind that a transition into open source wouldn’t happen overnight and open source catching up to current solutions will take even longer. On the comments when people when people point that out you said we have to start somewhere”. You are right there any thing we do has to start somewhere but at least give some serious thought on the consequences of that as we would be sacrificing **a few** rounds of cohort students until their education could match the real world requirements. Excel has great accessibility for people with vision or motor control problems. Thats important when youre teaching everybody. Not Chromebooks Linux laptops. A small correction but a Chromebook _is_ a Linux laptop. even if these programs are free switching over an entire school district and completing training on it isn’t. That would be a huge investment and most districts aren’t going to be able to afford that. Every spreadsheet on every business is done on Excel. Yes every business on earth uses Microsoft Excel. Using this in schools is not grooming it is teaching kids how to succeed in the business marketplace. If you show up for an accounting intern job and I ask you if you can use excel and you say no I use OpenSourceSpreadsheetX Im not going to hire you. Now we see Google and Microsoft becoming ever more prevalent in education offering their suites and Classrooms at a discount to schools and universities This isnt a now issue. I got a discounted version of Microsoft Office for school in 1992. because free software is constantly painted as inferior as a stupid nerdy thing and denied the resources to compete with them. What resources would be given to a free and open source software to allow it to compete with the big dogs? What do schools do when there is a lack of references material and support for their FOSS soft wares? Buying into one of the name brand services comes with so many benefits that the FOSS models can never do. Most FOSS applications cant provide the level of support that monetized software can and most users arent capable of making PR requests to do it themselves. What do students do when they look up their problem and their niche software has very little industry documentation? Industries standardize on a handful of name brand tools for a reason. The education to employability pipeline is extremely clear and the skills people develop are easily transferable between all the companies that use those tool stacks. I make it a point of pride to only use FOSS stuff but I can totally get why it is a bad option for a lot of people and industries. For a significant amount of people the first time they experience resistance using FOSS is the last time they are going to use it. My goal is as an educator is to maximize student learning not to advance your sociopolitical goals. For example suppose I were teaching students how to play piano and I decided that Yamaha pianos were best suited to that goal. Suppose you got irate at this and pointed out that Yamaha is a big evil conglomerate. Suppose you then suggest I buy pianos from a nonprofit collective based out of Oregon. Theyre handcrafted and organic too! But suppose I try their pianos and simply dont like them... they dont hold tune as well and dont sound as full the action is not quite as responsive. I going to say sorry bro my students needs are the first priority. They need a professionalgrade tool that everyone in the real world uses. My students are not your pawns. Do you think this rule should apply beyond the realm of software? Should schools only teach using free textbooks and other resources? If not why not? If people are paying to use a particular product when free alternatives exist doesnt that indicate that the costlier product might be better? I work supporting technology in a k12 public school district. This would be a nightmare. Support would be ridiculous as instead of having 12 contacts wed be going through MANN pages for hours or hoping to get a helpful answer on stack overflow. Keeping student devices from accessing what they shouldnt? Also a nightmare. We dont have the resources for me to spend weeks custom building Linux boxes to keep kids from looking at porn. Securly wont do the job anymore. Our teachers would be hit hard as well instead of taking advantage of SMART or a similar vendors custom built tools to build lessons theyd have to take hours of their own time like they arent busy enough learning how to code just to have the same tools they use all year long. As someone who uses CAD every day.... Sorry but no. You could use open source whatever and Ill read that and go okay so thats at absolute minimum an additional week of training assuming it transfers well up to maybe a month or more. Theres a lot of odd quirks with cad software. Even something like SOLIDWORKS vs Autodesk Inventor is definitely not a one to one. Let alone something like Revit. Things like this unquestionably look worse than just being proficient in a program I need you to use. Is it a massive minus? No. Might it make me choose someone else who fits better? Definitely yes. In general a lot of free software seems to be less feature dense and intuitive to use than the paid software it’s intended to provide the same benefits as. GIMP for example is a somewhat capable editor but there is a surprisingly low variety in tools available immediately whereas with Photoshop you can do all sorts of things using just the toolbar on the left side of the screen. Tools are used in order to help you do a task whether doing it better quicker or do it at all. In general you learn the most popular tools because those are the ones you are most likely to use and through the tools you can learn various concepts. Once you learn those concepts properly you should be able to learn other tools on your own if you need them. What prohibits you from learning how to use other tools as well if you deem them more important or more useful? You know what schools REALLY need? Tech support. You dont get that with open source software. Most users dont worry about that a lot but schools are dealing with largescale operations. They run into edge cases all the time. If software has a bug a school cant just deal because they have a responsibility to students who are paying tuition that the software is going to work. I understand where you are coming from however I think you are also showcasing you dont know the full extent of all these programs. I dont mean that in a rude way but there is a clear reason why Excel is used as widely as it is. This isnt some scam or conspiracy. For example with your video editing software you dont even mention AVID. Which is very widely used in TV/Film. The reason I point this out is that anyone who is a professional video editor understands that the workflow and software of these can be way different in how you do the same task as well as how theyre set up. A student in college who is going to school for film/tv should know the programs theyre using. Not some open source software. They should get a working knowledge of it because it will help them in their career. A student who is going to be using Excel in their job should not be using another program because it will be a waste of their money. Why would college and schools K12 choose the software that will not be as useful to their students as possible? free software is constantly painted as inferior as a stupid nerdy thing and denied the resources to compete with them. Free software tends to not be as easy to work with it has a lot of limits and rarely does it outpace the paid programs. That is not always true but mostly true. People arent going to be better thinkers or anything because they use open source software. They will instead go on to a sub like this and complain that their school taught them a program that didnt translate to what they needed and now have to relearn everything. Ok so when software goes down who will support it? You cant expect the school tech admin to fix it. You cant expect the open source team to fix it neither. Paid vendor support exists as an business model for a reason Students spending their own money are doing so to give themselves an advantage to get a job. If the jobs use Microsoft and Amazon tech stacks that is what the schools need to be teaching. Schools are not a public community service they are a payed for service for the benefit of the student. Students are already facing an awful job market and are now competing with AI... AI that knows how to use proprietary software. The counterpoint is that this software is taught because they are what is used. Would you want to be the college student who graduates and cant use Word or PowerPoint? The engineer who cant use AutoCAD? Or the graphic designer who cant use Photoshop? You would never get a job or you would just have to teach yourself the tools in your own time. different violet amusing ghost complete stocking heavy enter outgoing employ *This post was mass deleted and anonymized with * Closed source software is just as important as open source software for a healthy eco system. Your LibreOffice started out as StarOffice a closed source solution for example. Open source development is all about developers who are passionate about something. You dont put your time into something for free if you arent passionate about it. Thats the reason why many open source projects are started run for a while and then cease to exist and why you have half a dozen competing implementations fighting over the same market people start it as a passion project and somewhere along the line lose interest. Thats fine but institutions cant rely on the passion of the developers. They need someone more reliable. A corollary to that is that not all subjects are really interesting enough to actually be developed. Im still waiting for a truly open source ERM implementation. Its really hard to be passionate about such a dry subject that only companies need. If youre searching for my example you might find some ERM software saying its open source. Many companies today start as a open source / licensed close source combination because open source alone isnt sustainable to finance a whole operation. Some select big open source projects have managed to operate with open source exclusively Apache comes to mind but if you look closely youll see big name companies sponsoring those initiatives. The most famous one being the money Google gives the Mozilla Foundation. The reason they are so big is because they receive money from closed source companies. From a purists point of view you know Stallman level very few projects actually deserve the title open source. Many view it as a source of free labor to improve the base product while selling the product to companies. Next the schools responsibility is to educate you. As such teaching a wide array of productivity suites would make sense but there is hardly time to cover the curriculum as it were. Teaching the most important one is probably the best a school can manage given the constructs. Teaching a software that isnt used anywhere else does not fulfill its responsibility. Third the boat has sailed on these products. Even Google finds it immensely difficult to move the productivity market Microsoft the search market or Amazon the device market. The goal you intend to achieve is bit reachable without a clear and big mistake in the part of the owner of those products. In regards to graphic design/artist there’s GIMP which is free and open sourced. It’s not exactly the most user friendly but it’s equally as powerful as photoshop. I would have ended up way more violent if I had had to use motherfucking libre office instead of Excel or Word or even Google docs. Dont get me started with whatever shitass alternative there is for SOLIDWORKS or Fusion 360. QOL is such a neglected aspect of open source stuff it is no wonder it isnt more widely adopted. Education should include transferrable skills. Thats impossible to guarantee but there are a lot of situations where you can get very high transfer skills. Video editing is a good example. Adobe Premiere and Resolve are very common editing software used in industry. It would be practically irresponsible to not train students to use at least one of them ideally get some experience with both so that students have an easier time starting up in professional workplaces. The same would be true of sound engineering desktop publishing etc. If you have a graphic designer who knows OpenArt but has never used Photoshop or Illustrator... I mean theres going to be a learning curve that makes that person less desirable as a hire. Schools can and should give their students skills that are directly applicable to the workplace where thats possible and granted its not always possible. The issue is practicality. For transparency Ive worked in the open source software industry for a decade now about half as an engineer and half as a manager of a team developing open source software. So I am very motivated to use open source software wherever possible. The problem is that there arent good open source solutions for every need youd have in education. Sure you could replace Office products with something like LibreOffice or use Firefox or even Chromium instead of Chrome but there will be situations for which there is no viable replacement. Beyond that open source solutions quite often are harder to maintain and administrate than closed source ones and much as thats not a major hurdle for some organizations but schools in particular are often underfunded and have a particularly hard time allocating resources to this kind of administration. Design schools for example have to teach Adobe products because thats whats used in industry — the freeby design software is great for hobbyists but it doesnt cut it in a professional setting. Edit digital education should teach freedom and ownership of your evermoreimportant digital existence. Not reliance on massive corporations softwarewise. I mean theres no escaping from hardware companies So basically you are saying that education should teach ideology at the expense of professionalism. If one doesnt subscribe to a particular ideology there is nothing wrong in using industrystandard closedsource software. First of all I studied video editing in college and no one is teaching FCP X at a serious level because no posthouse uses it since the FCP 7 X debacle. They teach Avid if theyre serious or Adobe Premiere. Resolve is really only used for color though some posthouses are starting to use Resolve for an allinone tool now. Also Resolve has a free version for what its worth. The real problem I have with this view is that software is industry standard for a reason and assumes that opensource software is always better. As a creative this is far from the truth. I will live and die by Adobe After Effects and can tell you there isnt a single opensource program that is as good as it is. The plugin library what AE is able to do. I mean nothing compares to After Effects. Apples own proprietary motion tool inside FCP sucks. The closest opensource tool Ive seen is probably Blender and thats just because they both do 3D. College is supposed to prepare you for a professional future. If you learn how to use GIMP instead of Photoshop in graphic design school which has a completely different interface than Photoshop does and on day one of your job you dont understand how to use Photoshop what do you do? If you go out and use whatever opensource editing software in film school and then everyone is using Avid in Hollywood youll have no idea what to do because the learning curve to using Avid is gigantic. Have you ever considered why Blender is the only opensource project with wide industry support? Because its good. Maya is Blenders main competitor and is almost exclusively used in Hollywood in massive productions. Interesting. Your view is that ONLY free and opensource software should be allowed in education. But if you want software to continually improve you must recongize that the forprofit options are often better than the open source. Like really most people know that OpenAIs models are better than Metas. That Google Chrome is better than Firefox. Surely you dont support people using worse softwares for that aloneahh they are open source. Why do you support open source? Because it means we wont give our data to these bigger corporations. Why does that matter? Increased concentration of power found in later stage capitalism. You dont support open sourceyou support increased regulation. So then I ask you why does you not merely support increased regulation on these systems? Government is inefficient and outdated and the laws are written by the wealthy. Well there could exist a world where these systems are regulated to an extent that there is the prevention of concentration of wealth while at the same time permits some free market elements so that software improves over time. I dont see why youd be against this. I think it’s absolutely wild to feel chained to a specific OS or other tool. Admittedly some software only function super well on some OS but others work fine or there are plenty of alternatives. There are definitely specialty software that requires certain prerequisite softwares and hardwares that are definitely pain/impossible with certain OS lots of graphical softwares I think school administration should definitely get some scrutiny for not picking cheaper alternatives but I think that should be the main criticism… I wholeheartedly disagree with your claim that is boxes people into certain OS’s and they shape their future purchases on I started on powerpoint in elementary school and switched to google slides and plenty of other programs they all do the same thing if a kid can learn it without being actively taught I think pretty much anyone can. It doesnt matter which one you use its intuitively similar. Same with Google Sheets and Excel or Google Doc and Word same program. Im sure Photoshop has plenty of clones that have practically the same layout so if you dont want to be on Photoshop anymore you can switch to another program with a small period of adjustment. I totally get where youre coming from but isnt it important for students to also learn the software thats heavily used in industries they might enter? Balancing opensource with proprietary tools could prepare them better for the real world. personally I found it to be a huge leg up to learn the specialized engineering software that’s used in industry Hell yeah Cops who get fired for misconduct should not be allowed to be cops anywhere else in the state. Author JPOW1977Post Text I think most of us can agree that American cops are out of control. They basically have unlimited power and are rarely held accountable no matter what they do or who they hurt. Even when they are held accountable and lose their job over their misconduct they can just move over to another county town etc and become a cop and the fact they got fired from their previous police department might not even come up on their background check. If it did it probably wouldnt matter. If a cop gets fired for any kind of misconduct such as a wrongful arrest civil rights violation police brutality etc he/she should have their name go on a state wide registry. That way if he/she were to apply for another cop position within the state their name will pop up as a red flag and no department in the state should be allowed to hire that person. That person would have to move to another state in order to become a cop. It may sound extreme but something like this would make cops think twice before they do something to violate the rights of citizens. Cops who blow the whistle on corrupt departments can end up getting fired for misconduct. Its happened before and it will happen again. There are ways to get around that with state agencies that license law enforcement and can pull licenses for misconduct but your proposal without modifications wouldnt affect the better departments and it would give the worst of them more power to shut down officers who push back against corruption. Cops get fired all the time. There just isnt a news article about every time Define misconduct” In most jurisdictions filing a complaint against an officer is entirely open to the public. Here in Philadelphia it is as simple as going online and filing a CAP Complaints against Police form on the PPD website. The unfortunate reality of systems like this are that the overwhelming number of complaints very rarely go anywhere past initial screening. This could be for a wide variety of factors whether it is incomplete/misremembered information provided by the complainant officer body camera footage discrediting their claims false reporting etc. Law enforcement is a profession that will ALWAYS leave a negative perception for people they interact with. I’ve seen victims left traumatized due to being advised against filing charges due to lack of evidence and I’ve seen perpetrators arrested in front of their own children and family members… these are traumatic experiences that will forever leave a mark on the individuals forced to experience it. I’ve personally worked in jobs where anonymous client surveys can 100% lead to termination and those were just banking jobs. The stress is genuine. This isn’t to excuse the attempts made by many departments to protect and coverup officer misconduct. Complaints on a cumulative basis can ABSOLUTELY identify officers in need of more training or a need to be disciplined/removed from the department. Last bit but I think its important to note… the culture of individual departments can vary wildly and this influences how officers operate on a daytoday basis. To directly address your CMV I would argue that in many instances the way departments are run and the culture that is allowed to develop are far more impactful than individual actors. An officer moved to another department is going to adapt to the culture of that new department. If misconduct wasn’t tacitly approved of or accepted by leadership it wouldn’t be tolerated. Youre just gonna get cops who conveniently agreed with their previous department that it was time for them to quit. So either way youre going to have to depend on the hiring department actually caring about background checks Humans have the capacity for change so a police officer who was fired for misconduct could become a better person and there would be no issue with them getting another police job. Just like other criminals who turn their lives around they should be able to return to their normal life if they are no longer a threat. Of course there needs to be some serious safeguards in place to weed out potential reoffenders but it shouldn’t be impossible for a police officer to get a second chance. They shouldnt get to be cops anywhere ever. Period. [removed] Cops who get fired for misconduct should not be allowed to be cops **anywhere else in the state**. Why not should not be allowed to be cops.? Why let shitty cops be shitty in other states? Disagree. Cops shouldn’t be fired for misconduct they should go to jail and be blacklisted from ever serving their country in anyway past cannon fodder” in the third world war. Any abuse of power from the police should be minimum 5 years. They clearly won’t stop otherwise. Cops that get fired for misconduct should not be allowed to be cops anywhere else. There is no value in the in the state limitation. If you ignore the constitution in OK You will ignore it in SC or TX. They basically have unlimited power and are rarely held accountable no matter what they do or who they hurt. Even when they are held accountable and lose their job over their misconduct they can just move over to another county town etc and become a cop and the fact they got fired from their previous police department might not even come up on their background check. If it did it probably wouldnt matter. Firstly you make three assertions here. You say that cops in the US have basically unlimited power and are rarely held accountable you say that being fired lets them just go to another town and get hired as a cop again without issue and you say that even if it showed up on a background check it wouldnt matter. What evidence do you have to support these assertions? Because if this is just supposition on your end then your entire argument becomes very shaky. Also theres this It may sound extreme but something like this would make cops think twice before they do something to violate the rights of citizens. I honestly dont believe it would. I dont think that the cops who abuse their power think about possible consequences to themselves because they believe theyre justified. I think that even if this system were in place it wouldnt stop people abusing their power because they wouldnt believe they would be held accountable in the first place. Ive got some good news for you. An officer who is fired for cause loses their state certification and they cant work in LE in that state. They are also very unlikely to be hired in another state with a revoked certification in the original state. The bad news is they can appeal to have their certification reinstated. In my state that happens in about 20% of cases with an average of around 3 or 4 years for the appeal to be completed. OP your argument doesnt go far enough. A Boston news station did an expose on the police academy system in Massachusetts. They found 40something excops who had been fired forced to retire had their law enforcement credentials stripped away many convicted of felonies TEACHING AT THE ACADEMY !!! Were paying for the worst of the worst to train the fresh recruits ensuring the next generation is as bad as the last. WTF. This would be great but if a cop thinks theyll be fired they resign/retire first so Im not it would help as much as wed hope. Resignation while under investigation should be considered an admission of guilt.* *ETA Obviously it is already an admission of guilt but it should be officially considered an admission and treated the same as having been fired. Because multiple loopholes exist to circumvent this. Cops will just quit” or be fired for something else. Or just be transferred. Your end desire I think most would agree with. The method wouldn’t work \[redacted\] you already answered this They have power the constitution grants them. Thats not unlimited. And if youre going to say that cops rarely get held accountable then you need to show sources. Whats the percentage of legitimate violations vs a fitting punishment for the cop that committed it? Outside of that I mostly agree. If its proven that they knowingly and willingly violated someones rights then strip them off ever becoming law enforcement in any capacity. If it can be shown they were acting in good faith and need retraining then that should be sufficient. Its a case by case thing. Country. And there needs to be a national registry with compulsory department participation to track it. I think thats selling it short. Should not be employed in any way that requires carrying a firearm. [removed] Just cops? Why not anyone whos fired for cause is permanently unemployable for life? Should be automatically disqualifying for any LE job in the country. Forever. Did you say prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law?” Police are regulated by a state oversight board often called POST or something similar. If they are terminated for misconduct they almost always lose their POST and their access to the NCIC database. Both of those things will prevent someone from working as a police officer. POST at the state level and NCIC at the federal level. Im thinking anywhere in the country not just the state If you change the title to country Ill agree. Look at your state’s CPOST if you’re a CPOST governed state and you’ll find loads of officers fired for misconduct who had their certification permanently revoked. What you’re describing already is in effect. Misconduct can be anything from violating policy to getting fired for illegal activity. It all gets logged. I know a lot of people talk about the hiring process for cops needing to be lengthy but very few people who talk about it go through it. It’s common for the process to take 14+ months Why should they be allowed to become cops in another state? in any country actually Or in the country. Would you share your source for this? That 1. being fired from a police department for misconduct would not appear in a background check and 2. police departments hire people who have previously been fired for misconduct. [removed] [removed] ElonTrump was never supposed to work out The whole MuskTrump blowup honestly felt inevitable. From the outside it might’ve looked like a power duo two guys who love disruption and attention teaming up to reshape things. But if you look closer it was always a mismatch in vision. Musk operates like a systems guy. Whether its rockets EVs or platforms like X he’s obsessed with optimising from the ground up. So when he got looped into this whole government efficiency” gig it made sense he probably saw it as a rare shot to fix the machine instead of just criticizing it. But Trump? He’s not a systems builder. He’s a showman. His game has always been optics and momentum big announcements basepleasing slogans loyalty above logic. So the second he rolled out that giant spending bill it wasnt just policy friction. It was Musk realising he was building something strategic while Trump was just painting over cracks with campaign posters. And that’s really the heart of the fallout. It wasn’t about EV subsidies or some bill line item. It was about misaligned philosophies. Musk wanted to refactor the government like he’d rewrite legacy code. Trump wanted to run a headline loop. So yeah Musk lashing out makes sense. He thought he was brought in to engineer real change and then found himself treated like a side character in someone elses reelection arc. That kind of whiplash is bound to blow up. Musk operates like a systems guy. Whether its rockets EVs or platforms like X he’s obsessed with optimising from the ground up. So when he got looped into this whole government efficiency” gig it made sense he probably saw it as a rare shot to fix the machine instead of just criticizing it. Musk isnt a systems guy he is a conman. It is what he has in common with Trump. Both made the substantive part of their wealth and political power not by the things they did but by being able to convince idiots that the rewards of their obvious lies are So yeah Musk lashing out makes sense. He thought he was brought in to engineer real change and then found himself treated like a side character in someone elses reelection arc. That kind of whiplash is bound to blow up. This isnt it though. Their blow up has nothing to do with Musk wanting real change it is because they are two men with enormous egos who are so divorced from everyday reality that they cannot handle confrontation. No one says no to Trump and no one says no to Musk. When you put Musk in a room with Trump eventually Musk is going to disagree with him and Trump will do the thing he does to everyone who is not a lickspittle. Id agree with the overall idea that it was inevitable because of course it was but the simple reality is that theyre both huge narcissistic liars. It isnt about ideology or goals the two of them would come to blows over what sort of ice cream to eat given a long enough timespan. This gives Musk a bit too much innocence in assuming that he actually believed he was there to engineer change in truth he was there to act like he was in exchange for generous government contracts for Space X and his other projects to the tunes of billions. Edit to add His crash out feels like he got what he initially wanted but his dramatic loss in reputation has done a number on his internal ego and it feels like a heel turn on trump was more to try to regain sympathy from his detractors then any honest attempt to oppose trump. If he wanted to actually oppose him he would have just started funding his opposition for the mid terms and make clear why he is doing that. The whole premise here says Elon innocently bought a seat atop the most powerful government on the planet to do all sorts of good for the people by reducing the size of spend of said government. Elons businesses were being regulated by the government and some were under serious scrutiny. Guess what theyre not anymore. no coincidence there. Also Elon the engineering genius systems guy is a huge LARP. Hes no brilliant polymath. But He is a brilliant investor and because the west largely conflates wealth with intelligence we tend to believe whatever story we let the latest incarnation of Howard Hughes tell us. Their relationship didnt fail because Trump is too unlike Elon it failed precisely because theyre too much like one another. Theyre petty deeply narcissistic both have to have the spotlight on them at all times both have main charachter syndrome. And Elon woke up one day to recognize that he sunk his own popularity flying too close to the sun being redpilled. The fallout is Tesla is worth less SpaceX is may be a target for nationalization and he reputation is worthless. This would make sense if Musk really was a systems guy who innovated from the ground up but Musk is just as much as charlatan as Trump. His wealth is entirely based on coopting the work of other people then stoking the media hype machine. The companies he buys work terribly when he is actively asserting control but go hockey stick when he spends his time inciting a Twitter flame war. I do agree with you that Trump/Musk was never going to work out and it was extremely predictable though. However this is because *nobody* works out with Trump for very long in a highly visible roleTrump is a raging narcissist that cannot handle sharing the spotlight or having his views challenged. So is Musk and like the Highlander there can only be one. This is way too charitable to Musk. He never had any real interest in government efficiency through DOGE hes not a systemsbuilding genius. Hes just an altright nutjob that wanted the power to cut programs that he didnt like for political reasons. Your vision of musk is the one HE wants you to have of him not one that reflected in his actions. Musk tried doing in government what is often done in privacy companies especially startups which is break everything and fix the things people get the most mad about. They call this optimizing but really its carpet bombing and rebuilding ive seen it done numerous times at different startups Ive worked in. That strategy does remove waste but its not a one size fits all solution. Its fine to do in social media apps but you cant break everything in healthcare or jobs or supply chains you ruin actual lives. Hes not smart hes heartless his approach has gotten him fame and money and he think that makes him smart but it really just makes him like every other rich person who thinks money solves problems. IMO \*\*\*Elon is not fighting with Trump because he gives 2 shits about what Trumps policies should be hes fighting with Trump because hes trying to rebrand himself.\*\*\* Hes going to pretend that hes some sort of anti trump fighter now because it benefits him to do so just like he was a trump lover when it benefitted him to do so. Hes doing what is best for HIM and in that aspect hes 100% exactly like trump. Ive only ever heard people refer to it as a ticking time bomb to be fair. It was almost certain to fail from the start and thats the impression I always got from anyone who spoke on the issue. The fallout is more glorious than I thought it would be though. Completely disagree. Musk isnt a systems guy he is an opportunist like Trump. Musk went in with DoGE for two motives get private data and kill regulatory agencies investigating/impeding him. Its not a coincidence that many of the regulatory agencies that got cut down by DoGE were agencies that had open investigations on Musks companies. Its also not talked about enough but DoGE had direct access to everyones social security IDs and a ton of data was uploaded to Starlink. What is that data? Who is using it how and for what purpose? Im also not fully convinced Trump and Musk have broken up. It was only days ago that Trump said Musk is walking away due to needing to help his companies and left the door open to him coming back. I do think the attack Musk launched on Trump was more to bolster his image with the left who used to buy teslas and redirect attention with drama. When it comes to cuts DoGE actually did not find and cut much waste a point repeated by exDoGE employees themselves and this whole efficiency initaitve was just BS by two billionaires using the guise of costsaving and efficiency to further gut the government for their own benefit. Musk had no interesting in optimizing anything. You really believe the worlds wealthiest and possibly busiest man simply volunteered 130 days of his time out of the goodness of his heart? Look how hard they fought to get Social Security data access. SS is one of the most wellrun orgs in govt and I believe there is almost no fraud. **They have identified exactly zero dollars of social security fraud** after expending a huge amount of time and political capital. I have two hypotheses * **Elon wanted data.** The SS database is one of the richest untapped databases in the world. My guess is that his goons transmitted all that data via Starlink back home to X. I dont know what hes going to do with it and maybe he doesnt yet either. But data is valuable. * **He joined MAGA because he wanted to gain power over the regulators** that nominally regulate his business. He made a clear statement to everyone in govt I can get you fired if I want. Ok you still want to regulate me? Come at me! That feels like a weird way to describe what looks like illegal election interference for personal gain. Maybe Musk told himself he was helping fix things so he could sleep at night or maybe it just sounded better to the public. But I don’t think either of them had good intentions. Musk didn’t blow up because of some deep disagreement. He got punched in the face and fired after acting unstable maybe due to substance abuse. He also clearly has delusions of grandeur. From what Ive heard its not with Trump but the rest of the administration he had issues. This fight was always going to happen not because of different ideas but because both of them are mentally unwell. Studies have shown that a lot of CEOs and leaders show signs of being psychopaths. Trump is in mental decline and Musk have drug issues is arrogant and megalomaniac. he’s obsessed with optimising from the ground up Can you provide examples of this? Also does this mean that hes actually any good at optimizing? It is widely agreed upon that Musk really made X suboptimal. Profitability and user satisfaction have gone down. he probably saw it as a rare shot to fix the machine instead of just criticizing it. I do not believe for a second this was Musks motivation. Why do you? Every person who has been involved with trump publicly has been burned to the ground in the aftermath of trump being out for number 1 at the expense of all other humans on the planet. Elon thought hed get subsidies my pillow guy thought hed get free advertising Rudy Giuliani thought hed make money the list is a mile long. It worked out exactly like it was supposed to EM set up the mechanism for the Executive Branch to directly control of the Treasury payment system and extract personal data from the Treasury HHS SSA etc. for ingest into the palantir database they just announced in exchange EM got to destroy the agencies currently investigating several of his companies a couple billion in government contracts and 330M peoples worth of data to train his LLMs on. Their feud is 100% not real theyll be back to shaking hands and slapping backs as soon as the next opportunity to enrich themselves. From the outside it looks like 2 billionaires looking after the interests of billionaires. Frankly theres not a lot of people who know technology that think musk has any idea what hes talking about.... Although if you dont know anything about tech he probably sounds convincing. I think there is likely something more thats happened behind closed doors on this one. They are both egomaniacs though and potentially narcissistic and those traits tend to eventually fall foul of each other after a certain time. The inevitable part of it isnt a philosophy one its one of leverage Musk operates like a systems guy. Whether its rockets EVs or platforms like X he’s obsessed with optimising from the ground up. So when he got looped into this whole government efficiency” gig it made sense How many jobs do you think is optimal? How many children? How much ketamine? Youre giving Musk far too much credit by treating him as a sort of selfless technocrat. He isnt. Hes clearly a man with very strong opinions including about himself. It would be hard to name many people in government other than Donald Trump who are as obsessed with selfpublicity. Musk isnt a systems guy Musk is a conman who takes an existing company/project does a whole PR song and dance and steals credit for it. He did it with SpaceX he did it with Tesla and he did it with PayPal. However to quote Churchill If Hitler invaded hell I would make at least a favorable mention of the Devil in the house of commons so here goes...... Donald Trump used Elon to get what he wanted then ditched him to the curb because he is an egotistical POS who is physically incapable of allowing someone else to get attention. The problem with Elon and Trump is that each thought the other was Stormy Daniels then they couldnt handle finding the others come on their face. The JD Vance Marco Rubio Allin Podcast bro dilemma is given an anxiously held towel in each hand who gets one first? It was supposed to work. Whatever Trump did banked on him at least reducing USs debt which only Musk is doing. Reducing debt and spending will obviously cause chaos. But now we know the chaos is for nothing lol after he cut out the only good part about his government. It wasnt going to work out. But not for the reasons you give. Musk and Trump are both prima donnas they dont like to play second fiddle to anyone and both react really poorly to anyone who criticizes them. look at how musk responds/uses xwitter to people who disagree with him. I agree that it seemed inevitable that something was going to blow between them. But I disagree that it came from their differences Id argue it comes because of their similarities. The goals of wanting a headline and wanting and efficient government are entirely compatible. Assuming you descriptions of the men are correct they sound correct to me both could have gotten what they wanted. Tim Dillon is a man of insight! This was part of project 2025 Musk was the fall guy who comes in does unpopular things gets blamed then kicked out. At the end of the day you can only have one really highpowered guy in the White House and thats Trump himself. Musk was attempting to prop up Space X and his other companies before Teslas stock inevitably collapses. Personally I think it’s staged. Mainly because I don’t believe anything on the internet anymore. Lol yeah the Nazi salute guy just really wanted to improve government efficiency xd Two narcissists team up and end up raging at each other. Who could have guessed it? Trump is also never supposed to work out. [removed] The police and military will not protect US citizens from Trump under any realistic circumstances I think that in the event that Trump gives the military a clearly unethical or unconstitutional order the organization and most members will follow it. This includes killing innocent US citizens and it includes clear attacks on our democracy. Im only including situations that have a chance of actually arising. If Trump ordered the military to start shooting babies on the street tomorrow or to round up all Democrats and throw them in jail Im sure that the military will resist. The transition to violence will be gradual and there will be enough justification given to give these groups cover for their actions. A few examples of more plausible situations 1. If situation like the LA protests right now escalates to violence whether it was started by the police or the protesters Trump might declare the protesters to be terrorists and tell the military to use lethal force and the military will comply. He might demand that the police round up the protestors and arrest them and they will. 2. If Trump decided that some statement by a political rival was a threat or provided support for terrorism and demanded that persons arrest neither the federal or local police would prevent it. 3. If Trump said that he had evidence that some Democratic victories in 2026 were corrupt in some way and sent his goons to arrest people involved in certification or whatnot the police would either help or stand aside. I believe this for a few reasons. First Ive just never seen any evidence that it would happen. Second because there doesnt seem to be an agreedupon line that cant be crossed I suspect that for any given illegal or unethical order even if some members of the military disagree most wont speak out and those that do will be silenced by those above them for whom the order is acceptable. What would change my mind \ Evidence of any relatively recent past resistance among these groups to unlawful or unethical orders. \Any indication that these groups are taking this possibility seriously. Are there plans in place for this situation? Are there whispers of how far would be too far? Is there even popular sentiment that this is a danger? I’ll never say never but when Trump lost to Biden there were many political leaders including Pence who told Trump to get a hold of himself when he wanted to decertify the election. Likewise several members of the joint chiefs allegedly told Trumps team to not even think about asking for any kind of intervention around the capitol. IMO to have the police and military totally lay down you’d need a situation like in Venezuela or Iran where the generals are literally given millions of dollars a year by the president. The military is made of ordinary Americans that hold all kinds of values and levels of education. There are absolutely deranged people in the military that would get off and have the best day of their lifes if they could open up on LA protesters. There also people that would put their life on the line to stop it. The question is who are the majority? Even more so what are the lower level leaders like platoon sergeants and platoon commanders and company commanders and battalion commanders going to do? A single person in one of these leaderships positions could affect the actions of a hundred or thousand soldiers. If Pete hegseth ordered protesters to be killed a company commander could prevent every person in their company from doing anything illegal or could make all but the very most reluctant even those that know it is wrong and feel like they shouldnt but follow orders anyways open fire. Its not black and white and at the very least there would/will be isolated cases of US soldiers committing atrocities against US citizens. But I think unless there is a very thorough purge of the military more leadership than not will do what they can to protect the Constitution and the American people. I think a brown shirt scenario is much more likely. A few of Hegseths chronies leading a private army of Nazis and white nationalists and Christians in unmarked uniforms and masks but with enough of a facade of authority that they can commit wide spread murder and spin it to the masses as putting down insurrectionists and violent rioters in the name of law and order. These people are vile idiots but they understand the importance and how to control the narrative. The US military is a cross section of American society many military members support the president and many dont. Ask them to kill eachother or turn on their neighbors and Im confident they would mutiny. Fratricide in the name of this president is a bridge too far I think. First Ive just never seen any evidence that it would happen. Absence of evidence is not evidence of absence. Second because there doesnt seem to be an agreedupon line that cant be crossed I suspect that for any given illegal or unethical order even if some members of the military disagree most wont speak out and those that do will be silenced by those above them for whom the order is acceptable. You suspect this but do you have something stronger than a suspicion to base this on? Trump might declare the protesters to be terrorists and tell the military to use lethal force and the military will comply. He might demand that the police round up the protestors and arrest them and they will. These are two very different things. And arresting protestors is legally justifiable depending on their actions. If you throw a Molotov cocktail in a protest as opposed to just randomly in the streets for no reason those are legally the same action. People make the mistake of believing some sort of narrative force protects them from the law. But my point is its very normal to arrest protestors it would be very irregular to start massacring them. If Trump decided that some statement by a political rival was a threat or provided support for terrorism and demanded that persons arrest neither the federal or local police would prevent it. By a statement? Mate I think youre hearing but not listening things are broadcasted about Trump 24/7 that would make a classical dictator lose his mind. Public figures have called for the death of Trump and Trump didnt do anything about it. Youre just not going to get in a lot of trouble for talking in the United States. This is incredibly disconnected from American society and politics. If Trump said that he had evidence that some Democratic victories in 2026 were corrupt in some way and sent his goons to arrest people involved in certification or whatnot the police would either help or stand aside. Well this one is certainly true but only because it is completely outside of the polices scope. The police should not arbitrarily decide whether or not the president is lying. I’m in the military. I’m in an aircrew role. Not boots on the ground. I would likely never be in a position to shoot anyone with small arms. I would be up at altitude. So I’m probably not gonna be shooting any babies. But I know the UCMJ I know what a lawful order is. And more importantly I know how they work. I’m not entirely sure most people fetishizing these scenarios do. No enlisted person in any practical situation is deeming an order unlawful. Those are executive decisions. It’s one thing the movie Crimson Tide got right the XO is actually in a position to relieve the Skipper. When he does then the junior enlisted jump in and arrest him. What junior enlisted will absolutely do is report violations up. Anyone of any pay grade is authorized to uphold military regulation. But it’s a Catch 22 because you’re also required by federal law to obey the orders of the officers above you. If an officer gives you an order that you know violates an instruction which is ultimately connected to federal law you report it to a higher officer. Been there done that. But the point is somewhere up the chain a higher authority is taking responsibility for the order. You don’t take it in your own hands. You can’t. In a combat situation or during a flight in my case you can protest and make sure everyone knows you’ve protested. But 99 times out of 100 a junior enlisted is going to wait until after the situation to report the violation. This is how people end up at Court Martial for war crimes. It’s just too fucking chaotic to stop in the midst of the situation. It’s a massive risk not just to yourself your freedom you could be the one who ends up in prison but it’s also a risk that you’re wrong. Junior enlisted just don’t have all of the information. Because again orders are deemed lawful at an executive level. If you’re told the ROE is satisfied you’re ready to execute. You aren’t wondering if the COCOM approved it or if JAG reviewed it. You are in this situation reality is what you’re told it is and you are looking at what is right in front of you. A target a threat an objective. If you’re 6 hours in and suddenly wonder are we the baddies?” you have a massive cluster fuck situation to deconstruct. What are you going to do? Start shooting your officers? Crash your own aircraft? Fist fight everyone? It just doesn’t even make sense. That isn’t how these things shake out. Your view is wrong because you think people won’t have the moral fortitude to stop something obviously wrong. It’s built on a flawed premise. Enlisted absolutely will report bullshit. We famously love getting COs fired when they are fucked up. But we aren’t stepping up and arresting them. We’re calling the IG or the ISIC or some other higher authority and they sort it out. Eddie Gallagher was accused by other SEALs charged and convicted by a jury of other service members. But junior enlisted will use due process and that usually requires reporting to authorities and allowing the system to take charge. A sudden tearyeyed furious act of ethical courage is movie bullshit. Nobody has that kind of big picture view when shit is hitting the fan. and it includes clear attacks on our democracy So heres the thing. To make that point. Youd have to admit he hasnt made any clear attack on our democracy. Or admit your view is wrong. Because clearly hes in office right now and nobody stopped him. Hes issued all of the activities ice is currently doing. And nobody has stopped him. So which is it ? Is nothing hes done an attack on the democracy and the people of this country. Or is your point that the police and military mind you ice is made up primarily of local police and ex military of any given area will disobey and unethical order given to them by him incorrect? I did 8 years in the Army including several in a National Guard Infantry unit including riot activation. Literally aint none of that shit happening OP No offense intended but you like most redditors to be fair dont seem to have any grasp on reality when it comes to how the National Guard operates. During the Ferguson Anniversary Riots my unit literally took fire from rioters at one point and did not even fire back nor did we want too at risk of hitting innocent people nearby. The National Guard isnt going to just start shooting at rioters because Trump said they were terrorists. Also you have literally no idea how our legal system works if you think Trump is just going to start sending out basically Federal hit squads to just round up politicians or activates because Trump said they threatened him. Kathy Griffon did a photo shoot *Holding a prop of Trumps Severed Head* and was barely even questioned by the secret service. I do not like nor did I vote for Trump but my God the Doomering is exhausting to see constantly every single day. We heard these exact same things the first time Trump was in office and the man who literally campaigned on arresting Hillary Clinton couldnt even do that yet suddenly hes gonna be a political evil genius and have every single politican arrested who gives him a hard time? Sure. [deleted] I think that to say that the police wont do anything is a massive generalization. There are 18000 police agencies in America. The officers in my local precinct are very unhappy with Trump I havent asked them if they have any specific plans in place but I believe that those I know as well as the captain would refuse to unlawfully arrest my Congressman. Then again I doubt my precinct is representative. Its doubtful a representative sample of Americas 1280000 sworn law enforcement officers would be possible. I cant tell you that the police in all 50 states will oppose him. I *can* recommend you look into if your local police department or precinct has any community outreach programs. Thats the kind of thing that could go either way. Soldiers will generally follow even questionable orders but I think that if trump orders something particularly egregious at some point there is likely to be a point of critical mass where one senior officer disobeys his order publicly and thousands spontaneously join him. I guarantee you there are a high percentage of both officers and enlisted personnel who are pondering the details of the oath they swore and trying to determine where they will draw the line. Military personnel lean conservative but they are almost universally patriots who hold the constitution in very high regard. If they turn on trump enmasse it will be over for him. An isolated incident where some people are shot? Sure. Mowing down 100 people? Would be a shitstorm of epic proportions You really should distinguish unconstitutional and unethical . The Supreme Court decides whats unconstitutional so are you saying the military would follow trumps order IF the SC determines it illegal? I doubt it Unethical means very little because what you think is unethical is not what other period think is unethical. And the majority of the military voted for Trump so they agree with him more than with you. So far Trump didnt make any major decisions that his voters the majority feel are unethical They have an oath to the people... but therefore... they wont protect the people until the overwhelming majoprity of the people openly demonstrate they are against the current traitorous government. Even then some will obviously be traitors themselves and fight against the people. I can’t even get my PFC to tie his boots right without him questioning instructions and complaining. You’re telling me he’s been some kind of mindless automaton this whole time?? I think with the military especially the National Guard you could drive a wedge between them and the local and federal law enforcement as the National Guard enlisted soldier are far more likely to be from the community or adjacent more than the police. But in a bit of strategy if there were massive organized demonstrations taking place across the country Id start a messaging campaign that the protesters would rather have the military do the crowd control work. Say that theyre more professional less incidents of abuse of power/authority and that they have a sworn duty to protect its citizens and the constitution. All of it may not be 100% true but if you build that consistent messaging and keep everything peaceful it could help drive a wedge between all the forces the administration could use to crackdown and violate our 1A rights. If the situation arise where the order to use deadly force against protesters then the rank and file junior NCOs and Officers may second guess themselves and disobey those order. Even switch sides in the extreme scenario. I think the law enforcement know that theyre seen as an enemy so theyll act like it so turn the military into a trusted ally or at the very least competent force that embarrasses local PDs. An historical example https//en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Carnation_Revolution Times in history the military has had to assist the guard in country... Three things have worked the population up to a degree where the government sent more than the guard most of them race based issues. But I want one of these to really stand out to people 1932 the bonus army... This was a name the group used they were to get a dollar a day for their service and that was canceled and they peacefully gathered and protested the US ARMY was sent in the Veterans thought they were coming in support of them... They were sent to burn them out of town and they did. For those who think the army cant be used against the citizens take note for those who think the soldiers will always decline unlawful orders take note for those who think the army would be willing to turn on friend and neighbor take note these werent only friend and neighbor but their fellow veterans people who had worn their same uniforms but a couple years ago many of them being injured while in uniform just to be injured by the same uniform a couple years later for no more than asking for what they were promised by the government they served. The problem with your theory is that this gradual process must be carefully guided or it will backfire. Trumps administration is incapable of carefulness or any competence that is necessary. Theyd rather give an order to kill babies now than wait another half a year to build a pretext for some violent action. And even if they play this fivedimensional chess then any number of random events will happen and topple their plans. Authoritarian regimes lack flexibility that is required in this modern world of change. The sad thing is that many Americans will be hurt even if heritage foundations master plan does not work. If Trump decided that some statement by a political rival was a threat or provided support for terrorism and demanded that persons arrest neither the federal or local police would prevent it. Why didnt trump arrest Biden and Clinton then? He accused both of them of fraud and electionrigging. And he **explicitly** threatened to arrest her if he became president. He didnt do shit to her. If Trump said that he had evidence that some Democratic victories in 2026 were corrupt in some way and sent his goons to arrest people involved in certification or whatnot the police would either help or stand aside same response Ive worried about this as well. I know a ton of people in law enforcement and most of them are at least politically conservative although that doesnt necessarily mean proTrump/MAGA although many of them are. The most rabid most fanatical Trump supporter I know is an NYPD officer. Its also important to understand that we live in what is basically a two party system theres only 2 real options on the ballot. Just because someone voted for Trump votes Republican etc doesnt mean they support Trump becoming a dictator and acting like Putin. It doesnt mean they are chomping at the bits to act like the Waffen SS in occupied France. Again there \*ARE\* people in the military and law enforcement who \*WILL\* happily gun down protestors but I dont think they are anywhere near a majority. You may be right. There are approximately 2 million activeduty personnel in the US armed forces and federal government. The next county next to me has over 22 million guns. Also 400 million with citizens. 70M voters for Trump but not MAGA enough. Hitech armies dont do you any good do they? The Military knows this their recruitment is at rock bottom and the people they get are not exactly mean lean and fit machines. At this Point Elon would probably hire the biggest mercenary army and participate as 3rd party—the most enormous math maths. There is no military takeover option. I think therell be a mixture. What we know from the takeover by the Nazis in Germany is that most people wont do anything however aghast they are. So I think a large majority will just follow their orders even the subset that feels those orders are wrong — or at least dont feel right since most of them are lawyers. The next biggest fraction will drift away from service while not making a target of themselves. A smaller subset will enjoy the liberating descent into barbarism. And the smallest fraction will openly fight and suffer for it. So in general I think your view is correct. Oh easy. You clearly have never been in the military because that’s NOT how it works. Look up the Posse Comitatus act. Please get off the internet and touch grass. The military isn’t like the movies. We aren’t a bunch of robots who follow orders blindly. Plus there are about 100200 people at every single step of obeying an order that high. And then there are 100200 more people who each individually can prevent anything like that happening. It could literally take 1 single person to stop Trump under realistic circumstances Full on resistance is hard but you can slow roll things. When the South Korean president was doing his attempted coup some of the military elements sent to sieze parliament couldnt get flight clearance to fly their helicopters. That meant the parliment wasnt sealed off in time and the coup failed. Whoever did that probably saved South Korea without having to stand in front of any guns You’re half wrong. A large chunk of them will support it but a large chunk will not. The United States is too large to control by force too many of the citizenry are armed. It will evolve into a brutal civil war almost overnight unless the first thing done is to destroy political leadership that caused the issue. Prepare for the worst hope for the best. I know people up and down the military and in several large cities police departments. Zero will give or obey an order to open fire on peaceful protestors or on violent ones that can be neutralized by lesslethal means. Zero. Were Trump to issue such an order he would be instantly kicked out under the 25th Amendment. 100% would rather work for Vance. The ruling class’s dogs have no obligation to protect you from the ruling class. That’s not what they’re there for. no shit the police and military are the armed wings of the government why would they protect the people in any kind of civil conflict? the police’s regular function isnt even necessarily to protect citizens and stop crime in the first place. thats why the constitution includes all that shit abt armed militias I think a lot of people are really underestimating how many people in the military are genuinely violent freaks who would have virtually no issue with beating and shooting protesters especially brown people. The military encourages and enforces conformity loyalty and submission to authority. Stop adding the qualifier of Trump” and be real they will not help citizens PERIOD. They do not care about you and that’s every presidency every administration and every other form of government. I spent 12 years in the marine corps the ideas of honor courage and commitment are just words on a recruiting poster. The leadership only cares about their careers and are quick to throw their marines under the bus for any reason. The idea that any of them would risk their paychecks for the Constitution and the American people is a joke. Of course not. Look at the ATF they enforce unconstitutional laws they know are unconditional all the time. The only people I see ever standing up for the constitution are local sheriffs. But there is a big difference between following an unconstitutional law and firing on civilians. Thats the line. If you dont burn loot or generally commit crime youre not a target of the police or military. Not sure why this is hard to understand. I think you are insufficiently cynical. Theres a decent chance that the military would go along with rounding up all the Democrats. This was inevitable the day he won his 2nd term. He spread racist lies on National Television spread lies about elections and was convicted of felonies...AND THE AMERICAN PEOPLE STILL ELECTED HIM PRESIDENT!!! What ON EARTH makes anybody think he wont ok people being shot? What ON EARTH makes people think any significant portion of the military will DEFY him? WITH WHO backing them? The head of DOD was a proTrump talk show host 5 minutes ago...and he got CONFIRMED by the Senate! And Trump STILL has a 40% approval rating? All this American exceptionalism/we are different BS has to STOP! That ship sailed a long time ago.... law enforcement thru out history have always opted to join in atrocity rather than fight fascism Why protect people doing stuff like this This is a chronically online and out of touch take do you know anyone in the military? No one is coming to save us. We either save ourselves we die standing or we give in. The officers particularly the more senior you go? Absolutely not. They have this absolutely hammered into them to an insane degree. The rank and file? Yeah there is definitely a nonzero chance that an illegal order is given in the heat of the moment before saner heads can intervene terrible things can happen. I dont see it happening twice and I dont see the fallout being pretty. Agreed. The police and military are meant to protect the 1% from us I disagree. No long explanation needed. You’re just wrong. Keep on LARPing Reddit shits fucking hilarious to watch. Nobody thinks the US needs protection from Trump We dont need protection from trump. Trump needs to protect us from violent extreme leftists and illegal military aged males who seek our destruction. Trump cant spell why should his idiots? Whiskey Tango Foxtrot...repeat as necessary The threat is entirely from the Left. Trump is attempting to cope with the horrendous damage they inflicted during the Biden Junta. America will not collapse **TLDR I believe were gonna be fine lol** The narrative that America or as some agitators like to call the aMeRiCaN EmPiRe is collapsing or dying has been floating around for a few years now mostly in polarized social media spaces detached from reality and mostly in response to the rise of Trump the greater conservative populist movement and political polarity. At first I just found it annoying because I dont think doom and gloom helps anyone who isnt trying to gain from the message and that hope is always a better avenue. But I have now come to the belief that the idea isnt just annoying its historically blatantly untrue and will remain untrue. Still I want to know why my reasoning might not hold true and not just cant predict the future! My reasoning stems from the idea that this country has made it through *WAY* worse than anything weve seen in the last decade. The saying may be cliche but I genuinely stand by it when viewing history both domestically and abroad. America signed the Dec. of Independence in 1776 and was able to begin operating as its own country after the revolutionary war in 1783 so Im going to be viewing from that year on afterwards. **Ill begin by looking domestically**. These are the 3 biggest events in my opinion that our nation went through which genuinely had true and full potential to end the country as people knew it 1. The War of 1812. The British Empire trying to regain what they had lost is genuinely horrifying if you think about it. Imagine gaining independence only to have to fight off the very same oppressive totalitarian aggressor *again* just to keep it. That doesnt usually happen in history where instead one of 3 things normally happen conquered territory is never relinquished and forever altered territory is never conquered or territory is conquered but then freed from that specific aggressor forever. We had to engage the very same aggressor as if Britain could not fathom the idea that it did not have a right to our nation. I feel like the War of 1812 isnt talked about enough because its the only war since our Revolution where America as a whole had to fight another nation not for its benefit or revenge but for its total survival. But we did it and made it through. 2. Confederacy and Civil War. Self explanatory country actually did split and resulted in the deadliest war in American history by American casualties because it was Americans fighting Americans. Civil wars normally end in either one sides victory or permanent fraction. We came out with the former and moved on. 3. Great Depression. America had become one with its industry and industry economy at this point so what the Great Depression had the potential to do was basically never let us come back. But we came back and moved on love you FDR. Before I continue there were two other events I considered but decided against and I want to address * Chattel slavery. It was horrific and the poster child of the humans rights abuses this country was physically founded upon in conjunction with native genocide and we must continue to learn from history. However for this post I must look at numbers since 1783 African Americans slaves or free were never majority of the people in the nations entirety not talking about specific states where they actually were at some points. At its peak in 1860 slavery accounted for 4M people with the total population being around 31.5M. Today AAs make up 13% of the population. In my opinion while slavery anywhere is a great argument for QOL and human/civil rights measures you cant determine the future health/continuation of a nation based on the ill of a genuine numerical minority. * COVID. Obviously a terrible disaster and may all those affected find health and peace. But when viewing numbers it took a greater toll on well being and emotional health than it did actual stability. Numbers wise population was barely scratched around 1.2M out of around 330M. And while the economy clearly tanked and we will be facing countless problems mostly mental in the future because of COVID we came out pretty well given this was the modern day plague and the world began by having 0 counter. The lockdowns sucked and in 1929 they might have ended us. But this time we had technology and it was honestly that which saved our economy from total collapse like what happened in the GD and also the reason why despite the economy tanking overall unlike the GD there were economic increases in many distinct places too ex Zoom. Since the GD almost everything America has been involved with regarding our health as a nation has been domestic civil political unrest and conflicts abroad so ones not on American soil and thus not ones that really threatened the nations peoples lives and thus the nations continuation. Cold War was terrifying yes but it didnt amount to shit. Worst artificial attacks against explicitly American life since the civil war I count COVID as a disease that the whole world had to fight were Pearl Harbor and 9/11 and while tragic made us stronger pretty much immediately. So with the 3 major domestic events above plus all the major abroad ones and all the littler events in mind where are we now? A nation around 250 years old so a a fetus that has ballpark 80%+ of the same civil rights free speech workers rights womens and racial minority vote and participation LGBTQ marriage free practice of religion etc as developed and socially progressed nations thousands and thousands of years older than us enshrined into our law. Practice can be argued to be a different story and theres always room to improve in every nation but the recognition of the rights on paper in federal law is what is most important and marks how people will be viewed by the government from there on out as African Americans were known to say freedom comes first. And America has been the world leader in military might economy technology and volume of higher education for quite a while now. If we weathered all of that first sentence and still come out to this degree of historical progress in comparison to other nations and at the stupidly young age were at I find it very hard to believe were just done for because of one guy in 8 broken up years. Until we hit events that have the danger scale of the 3 I mentioned no social media echo chambers fear mongering about a civil war dont count I believe our history shows we will be fine. So now to address fears of Trumps government its perceived erosion of democracy and stability and any fears of future all out authoritarianism. I may dislike throwing terms like fascism around. But I do not like Trump for a plethora of reasons and think that some of his ideas at their worst are directly unAmerican and thus I want to validate peoples concerns and address them. Im going begin by looking globally then swing back domestically again 1. Ill begin with *the* example of fascism Germany. And actually this doesnt need much explanation. The time gap between Hitlers rise to power in the 1930s and modern day Germany in 2025 is basically a second historically not even 100 years. Germany didnt just have fears of fascism they slid directly into it and became *the* case example studied everywhere. Look at where theyre at now. Those same major cities Berlin Frankfurt etc are still there. Borders of core German area are still in tact and pretty much as they were prior Austrias annexation. Population increased. And economy and industry while only revived because of help at first is now one of the best in the world. So we know for a definitive fact beyond all fear mongering reasonable doubt and hopelessness that even when the worst actually literally does come to worst a nation can come back prevail and exist and thrive in the future. No American in the last 100 years has lived under a government that came even close to what Hitlers became. Next. 2. China. Again its a pretty open and shut argument. What Mao did to his population in numbers makes anything that Hitler Leopold and Stalin did numbers wise look elementary. The consensus estimate is 1555M of deaths with the number 40M being used quite a bit. In other words too many to actually count. And yet this happened in 195060s and were in 2025 so an even *shorter* time gap than Germany. Where is China now? Well this writing is about continued survival of nations which is dependent on stability and human life. Its not about nonlethal civil rights abuses. I may despise the Chinese government but in modern day there are two nations who objectively lead the world in military might and industry. China is one of them. Given what Mao did not even 80 years earlier thats impressive. Returning domestically Ill look at political unrest since the Civil War beginning with riots. Ill be bias very quickly the current LA protests are just. But the LA riots are pretty scary. That latter view is shared by pretty much everyone ranging from hey we can protest the ICE raids peacefully without vandalism or waving the Mexican flag all the way to flat out racism. We all hate seeing whats happening. But what I find almost ridiculous is that these riots in the last 5 years whether they be for Floyd or Gaza or immigrants are somehow being used to say yeah were done. The summer of 2020 was bad Minnesotan here saw it myself. But I dont think anything has happened in the 21st century on American soil with regards to civil unrest that is on par with what we saw in the 20th century Rodney King Red Summer Vietnam demo.s Black Panther party and peaceful MLK demonstrations are all examples off the top of my head. And yet here we are America is not going to die because of civil unrest lol. Next fears of life is gonna be shit because \[\*insert political group I disagree with\*\] is i I think one major factor you are ignoring is social media and the devastating ease it provides bad actors against american unity to exponentially create divide and conflict. Every problem that was faced in history never had this weapon that has gerrymandered the whole world hell even gerrymandered an individual. It is an unprecedented time where there are multiple visible pressure points that are being simultaneously pressed with the effect of social media on individual voters. Democracy has not been used to destroy itself at this rate at any point in history. Tldr its the height of hubris to believe you cannot fall. Everything that is born eventually dies. Nations will be no different. The question is only when and how. USA grew by claiming to be Number 1 and land of the free. When USA is not longer number 1 and free I fail to see what will keep it together and might break into several states. Just because America survived one civil war does that necessarily imply it will survive another? The sun never sets on the British Empire. [removed] I think youre missing the main argument for why America will fail which is the internal conflict. The relationship between the left and the right is becoming increasingly hostile and disconnected. People on the left hate the people on the right and vice versa. The first thing Trump did when he came to office was cut every single one of Joe Bidens orders that he could get his hands on. A nation divided is destined to fall. The War of 1812. The British Empire trying to regain what they had lost is genuinely horrifying if you think about it. Imagine gaining independence only to have to fight off the very same oppressive totalitarian aggressor *again* just to keep it. Ill leave others to change your view but just a sidenote this is a somewhat wild take on 1812. The US declared war on Britain not the other way around and in no small part because the British were arming indigenous groups resisting American colonial expansion. While history is somewhat ambiguous the rhetoric of Americas annexation of what would become Canada was pretty central. The UK was extremely busy fighting Napoleon at the time most notably in Spain there was not a serious attempt to retake America. Also I have to tell you Britain at the time was not a totalitarian state. The British monarchs by this point were largely figureheads not quite as much as they are today but by and large they were heavily subordinate to Parliament. They were certainly not the autocratic Enlightened despots of say Russia or France for that matter. This had been true since the late 17th century. Britain was hardly a fullblown democracy yet but then again neither was the US given that the right to vote was confined by law to propertyowning white men. That doesnt mean that the American colonies were given adequate political representation or that the War of Independence was necessarily unjustified or something but the idea that the Americans were freedomloving democracyhavers and the British lived under the thumb of an oppressive totalitarian state is not a particularly fair characterization. Clarification request aMeRiCaN EmPiRe America controls territories without allowing them to speak for themselves on their controlling government level see Guam and PR. American spread West in the US with no regard to the people’s in place before them and as evidenced by the States itself existing on overthrown nations land. The monarchy of Hawaii was overthrown with US financial support. Do those not exemplify something is an empire? Reminder that the British empire had a King and Queen not having an emperor” is not a disqualifier There is a good long read here which I think is much more relevant to your central question will America collapse? and it relates to a topic that you didnt even touch on at all. https//aeon.co/essays/historytellsuswherethewealthgapleads The central thesis is that you can go back through history and find a common thread for empires that *did* collapse. Economic inequality gives rise to an entrenched aristocracy and widespread disillusionment among the general public who no longer feel invested in the success of that society. Then you often get elites infighting among each other tearing much of the society apart. American economic strength post WW2 came about from being the sole superpower left standing with intact manufacturing and economic base and given that a large chunk of the productive European workforce was young males killed enmasse elite capitalist classes had to actually pay labor well. Globally and particularly in America. This resulted in a booming middle class who in turn powered the economy as consumers. That middle class is now being hollowed out. American socioeconomic mobility is quite poor by global standards. https//www.weforum.org/stories/2020/09/socialmobilityupwardsdeclineusausamericaeconomics/ Economic inequality is rising https//www.pewresearch.org/socialtrends/2020/01/09/trendsinincomeandwealthinequality/ A big part of this is lower and lower wages for all but a select few professions and many of those in the most well developed cities only. AI also has the potential to make this worse resulting in higher levels of unemployed. America in particular has very little by way of a safety net compared to other western democracies so it may be even worse for Americans. You need to engage with this core issue. The things you discuss in your original post are symptoms not causes of this. Mostly agree but I do have a bone to pick with the characterization of the Nixon administration. Especially his first term was pretty good. He largely continued the Great Society programs of LBJ’s administration and created the EPA. He also discontinued the draft and then got us out of Vietnam. He was from a better time when both parties worked together more than they do today and Watergate killed his viability completely. Today Watergate would not be as earthshattering as it was back then. Honestly if the Watergate scandal had not happened I believe he would be remembered by both sides as one of the best Presidents we’ve had. He’s definitely up there in my mind despite having some serious skeletons in his closet. Were headed for a Years of Lead Paint not an outright collapse but something like the Years of Lead in Italy just much dumber. As a German your point about Germany being still here confused me a lot. Germany did in fact collapse. On every leben imaginable. Physically most cities levelled every now and then thousands have to be evacuated because they keep finden WW2 bombs in construction sites politically geographically and culturally. Germany was occupied after WW2. Without the Marshall Plan it would probably still be an irrelevant nation. Simply looking at the current situation in the US from a historical perspective there are in fact some similarities regarding the rise of the Nazis and MAGA. That does not mean at all that this is bound to be the USs fate. Just that your example is poorly chosen for the bigger point you are trying to make. The main predictor for violent revolution is the size of the gulf between the ruling class and the working class and economic despair of the latter. Since time immemorial across the whole world this has been the universal powder keg waiting for a spark. The US has had a strong middle class for generations now with very healthy upward mobility between the classes. When this existed civil unrest was low excluding temporary swells re issues like the civil rights movement and Vietnam conscriptions. But since the 70s this middle class has been shrinking fast. As a ruling class the class with disproportionate influence over policy ie rich people is able to take more and more and the potential for the working class to own their own assets and gain security from those assets shrinks and shrinks a vicious cycle a spiral occurs where the rich can get richer faster a the poor get poorer faster and it accelerates year over year. Look up a chart showing median wages vs housing prices. That is what you are looking at now. Rather than a working a middle and a wealthy class you end up with a only a ruling class and a **serf** class workers with almost no autonomy no land of their own no labour unions or bargaining power. No upward mobility no dreams. Working only to survive while others reap virtually all of the reward. Look at housing only a single generation ago buying a home was the norm for families with two working parents. Now it’s shooting further and further out of reach even outside most urban centres. What does this do? How does it contribute to a spiral of volatility? Once one generation of a family is squeezed out of property ownership one set of parents is bled for rent until they die. The knockon effect is their children have nothing to inherit often an inheritance would be the only way a renting person could afford a deposit. So that’s another generation of lifelong renters. The more property someone owns the more they make from their renters and the more property they can buy. They are no longer competing with families trying to buy a single home they’re competing with other mega landlords who earn more and more each year from their tenants. That is happening now. Today. The same way small businesses are bought out by larger ones the pool of small business owners shrinks and like with rent money all that hard earned cash flows uphill like a massive pyramid scheme to a shrinking pool of owners and shareholders. It is a spiral of endless greed which eventually has to reach a breaking point. The US American is an individualist who puts an emphasis on fair treatment and opportunities. He or she can only go for so long accepting what is becoming more and more apparent as unfair treatment and a shrinking potential for opportunity. The US American person is no longer easily placated by socalled bread and circuses” distraction or the nice man on the news telling them everything is normal. They have social media now. Americans know what the term *Oligarch* means who had never heard that word before a decade ago. They know what percentage of wealth is owned or controlled by an astonishingly small percentage of people and families when their parents’ generation had no idea at all about any of that. They have begun to recognise that the two party partisan system means their vote only offers a narrow range of choices which can not effectively or significantly change the prospects for the working man or woman. Postslavery when the single most valuable asset in the country was paperwork for the ownership of human beings this is a unique and quite a rapidly accelerating issue. Even in the Great Depression wealth inequality wasn’t as severe as it is today. You’ve claimed that it’s not realistic for the US to fall to implode because it’s not facing anything it hasn’t faced before is not true. Wealth inequality is that issue. The riots are the symptom not the cause. A country doesn’t generally collapse because of riots but riots usually signify a serious underlying issue. Fact of the matter is that we’re reaching unsustainable levels of debt unprecedented political polarisation and we live under an administration that has permanently shifted the nature of politics and is breaking every norm. Salaries are stagnant people are increasingly struggling to get by and many people feel pessimistic about the future. We’re in a posttruth information environment that is getting more extreme with every election. All of this is at a time where our main governing system is gridlocked and unable to meaningfully function. All the infrastructure around us was built by people that preceded us by two generations. Not only have we not innovated on it and laid the groundwork for future generations we’re failing at maintaining it. Isn’t it objectively shocking that we haven’t been able to build a single line of high speed rail? We have a wholly incompetent government at all levels that is detached from reality. From local governance all the way to the highest offices. Our schools are being defunded we’re struggling to get anything done and we’re constantly moving towards conflict. Be it getting dragged into a war with Iran by Israel and her elected US sycophants or a face off with China. This is also in a time where our relative global standing is decreasing with the rise of Asia. Are the LA riots going to collapse the country? No. Is it a sign of a coming collapse? I think so. P The collapse of the United States is not going to be like any of the things you’ve described. We aren’t going to fail because of political unrest or because we get attacked by some other country. We’re going to fail because industrialized capitalism is unsustainable. We might run out of resources first. Or we might run out of people to do the jobs. But what most likely is we’re going to run out of runway due to climate change. Oh we’re gonna be unable to handle the ex pandemic because we’re too profit driven. Or all the micro plastics on our blood are going to catch up to us. Or the Rising national debt is going to bankrupt the government which will strangle trade domestically and abroad so much that will see tens of millions die. When these things happen they’re gonna happen to other countries including the United States at around the same time so this may not fit your view exactly. But I think we are going to see systemic collapse because we can’t just keep growing on a planet of finite size. Eventually it’s going to run out. Nobody knows when but eventually it’s gonna happen. Nobody sane is expecting US to collapse anytime soon. What will happen is US losing its soft power in the world to China and slowly but steadily losing its world power status. US is really close to lose western Europe as ally. Not one year from it but Europe now realized that we need to be able to self defense. When we will we wont go along with US blackmailing us for example into not condemning Israel. What signal you think is for example European countries starting to call Israel on what they are? Why do you think it didnt started earlier? We didnt wanted to lose US support. Now we just know that we dont have it either way so we can stand stronger to our values respect for human rights. I know this wasn’t written by AI because only a human would be that wrong about the cause of the war of 1812. Yes the British forced American sailors into service of the British navy and that’s not cool. But the war was really about trade territorial expansion into Canada failed and fear of future conflicts with Britain. It was America that believed they had a right to British territory Canada and not the other way around. Burning down the whitehouse was just a fuck you for invading. There was no earnest attempt to retake America. Americans have not experienced history like China has. Collapse will come suddenly. There will be signs but it will still come suddenly. All the reasons you gave have existed throughout Chinese history they are just different reasons. Democracy is not the key to determining whether the United States will survive. In fact nothing can determine the survival of a country. When destiny comes the United States will be number one in the world. When destiny goes the United States will decline. This is quite normal. China is not a religious country so why does it believe in the Mandate of Heaven? This is not without reason. Take the Qing Dynasty as an example. The Qing Dynasty was not democratic it faced foreign invasions and civil wars but it managed to survive wave after wave of crises. The Qing Dynasty began industrialisation and implemented a constitutional monarchy which was undoubtedly better than absolute monarchy. Do you know what? The Qing Dynasty perished because of the constitutional monarchy. Yeah it survived these disasters you just mentioned. But would America have survived a Civil War during the great depression? Because thats where things are headed. Europe and Canada no longer trust the US as an ally the tariff nonsense meant prices reached an all time high and Trump is going after the thing that made America a powerhouse to begin with namely its universities and its immigration policy to bring talented people to the country. Even if it doesnt collapse it will no longer be the superpower it has been in the past. That was a long read... However point are taken. I think the collapse of the United States will come when it decides to be a divided states. This division will come about when the political duct tape of representative democracy greed and ignorance reach their peak. Right now croney capitalism digital feudalism and money hording are the main issues. And right now the only reason the country hasnt erupted yet is because these pillars that it currently stand on is maintained by ignorance greed and the ideal of settling. Simply put the average citizen is fine as long as they get to be entertained eat have sex keep up with the Jones and leaving all their thinking to the one party system made up of democrats and Republicans. I think the day will come when corporations get the right to vote. When these corporations have complete control of the country and creates a neo feudalistic economy that is when the collapse will start. When the middle class is dead and safety nets are taken away via privatization and the means to profit from it fails via a massive crash. The Globe will lose trust in the USD. Then thats it. The majority of states will see a dead USD and want a fresh start as country. Some states will not want the want their economy associated with a dead USD. The constitution will be amended and allow for states to leave the union. The military assets will be divided amongst states. And new country coalitions or blocks will form. There wont be a civil war. The people will just go with it and let it happen because at the end of the day full belly sex entertainment and no critical thinking is what the average citizen pursue. Plus we tend to vote against our own interests via a single issue voter mindset and party loyalty mindset. You do rightfully point out that America has gone through worse and survived events like the great depression though I would like to counterargue given current conditions were facing. What America is facing now is not just another crisis” its the terminal crisis of its entire economic model and history shows that modes of production do collapse when their contradictions can no longer be contained. You argue that America won’t collapse because its survived past crises like the Civil War Great Depression and political unrest. But I’d challenge that framing those were crises within a relatively stable industrialized or prefinancialized capitalist model. What we face now is a collapse of that model itself. Over the last few decades the U.S. has shifted from a productionbased economy to one dominated by financialization where speculative capital debtleveraged assets and monopolized rent extraction have replaced real growth. This is not a temporary detour but the logical endstage of capitalism as Lenin described in *Imperialism The Highest Stage of Capitalism.* The private equity model for example doesn’t grow companies it cannibalizes them through leveraged buyouts and debt extraction like we saw with Sears Toys ‘R’ Us and Red Lobster which creates systemic risk in the process. You mention past depressions but unlike the 1930s today’s economy is built on a fragile foundation of fictitious capital artificially low rates and historically unsustainable sovereign debt. The Federal Reserve’s repeated bailouts and QE cycles since 2008 haven’t resolved underlying issues they’ve merely inflated asset bubbles that grow more dangerous with each round. Now with debttoGDP exceeding 120% rising longterm Treasury yields and mounting defaults in commercial real estate and corporate debt we’re facing not a typical downturn but a structural unraveling. If Treasury auctions begin to fail with nobid scenarios or mass foreign divestment the Fed may be forced to intervene and buy Treasuries on the secondary market injecting massive liquidity to stabilize prices. But this would likely accelerate dollar devaluation and inflation expectations especially if global confidence erodes. Meanwhile interest payments on the debt are exceeding $1 trillion annually. If the U.S. enters a borrowtopayinterest” loop while political paralysis stalls fiscal response like during a debt ceiling standoff or broader feedback loops start to accelerate it risks triggering a sovereign debt crisis and a liquidity collapse. At that point monetizing debt becomes the only politically feasible path setting the stage for a hyperinflationary spiral through forced systemic responses to collapsing confidence in public debt and currency. We see that capital no longer invests in productive infrastructure i.e. the CA highspeed rail that is gridlocked for profitbased reasons. Tariffs aimed at restoring domestic industry only raise costs and provoke retaliation they remove access to cheap labor which had delayed capitalism’s collapse. Additionally Quantatative Easing and ballooned federal reserve asset sheets have become a permanent thing and makes the system dependent on larger and larger injections with diminishing returns and growing inflationary risk. You compare today’s instability to WWII or the Civil War but those were external shocks or intrasystemic conflicts. What were witnessing today is the implosion of capitalism’s ability to reproduce itself and to generate surplus value reinvest and maintain legitimacy. That’s a qualitative difference not just a new iteration of the same historical cycle. Collapse doesn’t mean a sudden explosion it means an accelerating erosion of state legitimacy economic viability and social cohesion. And that is happening now record inequality asset bubbles stagnating wages mounting debt and the replacement of labor by machines or rentextraction mechanisms. These aren’t temporary trends they are expressions of capitalism’s terminal contradictions. So to respond to your TLDR. I don’t believe America will collapse overnight. But I do believe we’re witnessing the slowmotion collapse of the American capitalist order and without radical transformation that collapse could become irreversible not because of doom and gloom” pessimism but because the material conditions no longer support the system’s survival. Yes we will heres why. Our economy is incredibly insustainable for a lot of reasons. One of the main ones I really think about is just the fact that our currency is really way too valuable. Our country is so wealthy that even cashiers and other bottom wrong workers pay for cars and use those cars to get to work. Thats kind of crazy when you think about it that they can afford that pray the trouble is that increasingly they cant. There are parts of the country where those cashiers could get to work by bicycle or public transit in vast swaths of America a car is the only viable way for a lot of these bottom line workers to get to work. And here in lies the problem. The global economy is gradually dedollarizing. Which means that America is gradually going to need to transition to importing as much as we export. The whole bubble economy running on the dollar is the only reason we were ever able to import so much more than we export. What do you think will happen to our economy once we can only import as much as we export. You can no longer take out more and more deaths to maintain this BS? One sweet become just another country that can only engage in trade in a fair equal manner? Whats going to happen is cashiers warehouse workers and other low wage workers will no longer be able to afford cars. Which means they wont be able to get to work. Which could lead our entire economy to collapse. We Built a massively wasteful car centric society. Housing and everything about our society are so ridiculously spaced out that we couldnt transition to public transit even if we wanted to because everythings just too spread out for that sort of system to be viable. The only way we could possibly transition to a transportation system built around public transit and bicycles as if vast swaths of our sprawling housing is abandoned. And eventually when the average American becomes too poor to afford a car this is inevitably what we will have to do. And now that Trump is accelerating this whole de dollarization process hes just accelerating the point at which this will happen. Means that lots of peoples $300000 homes will eventually become worthless. Not just because the average American will inevitably become too poor to afford a car of this but also because our infrastructure is crumbling and in a lot of towns the only way they could possibly replace their crumbling infrastructure is if the institute a property tax rate of 100% which is impossible. Those sprawled towns are doomed. As these problems kick in theyre going to pile on to all the other horrific problems are facing like our debt crisis thats evolving into a debt doom spiral into a bankruptcy if the federal government. The only way to fix the debt crisis is the tax to Rich not only by upholding existing tax codes but passing new taxes on the rich. Good luck politically achieving that. This means that if business as usual is maintained the government will eventually go bankrupt which will take all these problems Ive mentioned and multiply them exponentially. You cant even keep the cork on this bottle with authoritarian repression because Americans are the most wellarmed civilian population on the planet. Theres only so much of a reduction in our average quality of life that we will accept before it leads to a degree of violent unrest that collapses the whole goddamn thing. And I havent even mentioned the growing threats were facing from environmental pollution and climate change. Our Southwest is turning into an uninhabitable desert and that uninhabitable desert will gradually grow and spread further and further creating a massive refugee crisis gradually over the coming decades and likely continue to get worse for at least the next few centuries. Every single existential threat we are facing we fundamentally lack the political will to properly address any of them. every time our government faces one of these challenges they have some cells One question. How can we help our corporate overlords get rich off of this? If they cant then they generally do nothing just kick the can down the road. Trouble is we are running out of road. Your argument that America is unlikely to collapse is wellreasoned and historically grounded but let’s engage with it critically focusing primarily on the US foreign debt and fiscal sustainability combined with constitutional crisis. You rpoint out that the US has endured existential crises and emerged stronger. However both national debt and constitutional crises are structural threats unlike acute crises wars or depressions. Supply chain disruptions from high tariffs and loss of appetite for U.S. Treasuries when combined with Trump’s authoritarian tendencies and the US debt crisis could accelerate instability leading to a tipping point where the US faces severe economic and social disruption. Maybe not Mad Max collapse but a Brazil or Argentinastyle decline is certainly very possible. There is a vast difference between the stated premise America will not collapse and the summary will be fine lol Will it collapse in the near future? Probably not there is a lot of inertia and no end of distraction available. There is significant chance of violence as ICE escalates starting to see it in LA. If the President TACOS again that will die down but the deportations seem be their main current goal and we can easily see more of that in NY Chicago etc. Having the army routinely deployed on civilians doesnt immediately collapse the country but it very much not fine lol A civil war like our previous one is unlikely as the geographic boundaries are a lot less easily divisible and economic interdependence is a lot higher. But a lot of everyday violence by and against national guard ICE law enforcement? Thats a death spiral though potentially a really long one. There is also a decent change of a massive election dispute real or manufactured in 2028. Either 45 runs again with flimsy justification or there is massive voting restriction around Real ID/ name changes/etc objective truth has taken massive damage so it will be nearly impossible for most to know what to believe. Maybe someone eventually concedes to move on but each time this happens it becomes less likely it will happen again not immediate collapse but slow death spiral Finally at some point the trade war and the loss of domestic farm workers really hits home. There will be significant food shortages in the near to mid future given current direction. We are deporting people that pick the crops and global trade routes are being rearranged to include a lot less US. At best this leads to inflation/ rationing at worst riots. Might even hit in the next administration or they wont be able to fix it quickly which will erode confidence further in government. Slow death spiral. Rome collapsed in a few pages on our history books. It took hundreds of years real time. Empires and countries die slowly. We keep adding nails to the coffin Im sorry but you simplified what happened in Germany after WW2. The country was literally totally defeated fully occupied and there was a whole process of denazification demilitarization democratisation and decentralisation. Also literally split in half and didnt unify for decades. And God knows what the fuck would this century look like if there was not a whole process of european integration and massive aid by the US to Western Europe. Also if core German territories exist where is Prussia? You know the entity that united Germany and which wad ruled by the dynasty of future German Emperors? You know that the Polish border was moved west into Germany? Even before WW2 The Polish got the Gdansk corridor... Secondly collapse in general doesnt have to happen with the snap of a finger. Rome fell in the span of hundreds of years with the fall of Constantinople being the definitive end. And collapse of an empire doesnt mean the nation or state dissapears. The Austrian empire collapsed yet Austria still exists. The Spanish arent a major player or a world power with a colonial empire yet they still exist. Russia lost a lot of territory in Central Asia Eastern Europe and the Caucases yet is still exists. But yes I agree that the internet is too doomer. What I think will happen is that the US will go back to muh neutrality until another event similar to Pearl Harbor 9/11 or a new type of threat emerges. The main problem facing the US is the crazy polarization and this weird idea that everything will be okay because we went through worse. As if the future is not the most unpredictable thing ever. Address the American Dollar’s possibility of no longer being the world’s reserve currency and I’ll take the rest of your brushingoff more seriously. One single moron aggressively pissing off every other nation on the planet may not be enough to destroy our economy but our national debt will become a problem like every other country’s would in the event that the rest of the world’s financial systems drifted away from being anchored on ours i.e. if dimwitted conservatives continue to be elected. Considering howfar we’ve strayed from the words and intent of the Constitution a coapse of the country isn’t as far fetched as all that. But what I think is more likely will be states taking power back from the federal government refusing to follow federal decrees and laws that take power from the states. The founders envisioned the states as independent entities tied together in an alliance something like the European Union. If one regards America as an Empire which it sorta is just not in the proper technical sense America likely wont collapse. Instead it will go through periods of decline and resurgence. Right now we are in a deep decline in the American Empire and its likely we will never achieve this level of power in the future but its extremely likely that once we overcome this *eventually* America will experience a resurgence. I’m a geologist. We tend to take the long view and for things like climate change tend to say stuff like the Earth will survive. And it will and so will humans but that doesn’t mean it will be easy or pleasant for them. American hegemony is something that is so baked into our world view that we have no idea how much protection and comfort it provides us. And how recently it was established. Really just since world war 2. Prior to that America was a fortress thanks to our geography and relative self sufficiency. We want stuff from other nations but didn’t actually need stuff from them. That’s no longer the case. We are vulnerable to attacks within our borders or from the air or from cyberattacks. I think the current administration is a unique threat because our sense of rule of law was the biggest thing we had. People wanted to do business here because of the stable law and courts system. They wanted to do business because of the relative lack of corruption. Now? We are a gamble. I think America will survive and our geographic isolation means it’s unlikely someone is going to come occupy us but we will no longer be the center of the world economy. Other countries will treat us with wariness a rogue state and plan accordingly. I sure hope it does Redditors have predicted 50 of the last 0 American societal collapses Bond market bruh. Its a strong assumption that US Debt will continue to be bought. Even a little bit less demand could see the 10 year at 5.5% or 6%. That fundamentally changes USAs ability to pay for stuff. If it really hits the fan you best believe that the world will question the Dollars dominance for international transactions. The grip of antiintellectualism on America is almost complete. It isnt just some bumpkins its everywhere. Teachers scientists experts everyone. Many go as far as pretending that intelligence doesnt exist smart means that you remember more than others and people know what theyve been taught. Thats the end. My reasoning stems from the idea that this country has made it through WAY worse than anything weve seen in the last decade. Perhaps we managed to do so because we had better political leadership during those crises back then. It’s no guarantee we would now. I dont think its a matter of America collapsing or not. A country can exist in various stages of great to suck...its just a label after all. Its a matter of /how/ sucky it will be. 2008 was a blip on the suck radar compared to the civil war or the great depression but it ruined the futures of many young people trying to start their careers from in ways we havent healed yet. Wounds last. My kids are just starting out...what will this end up doing for them for their whole lives? Countries have gone from democracy to dictatorship while keeping the same name...and stayed there for decades. Whose to say it cant happen here? Its like the environment. Global warming wont destroy the world. It never could. Its always been a question of how much suffering we will allow it to cause before it starts to heal. I appreciate your methodical approach but I believe your premise is misguided. You state you are arguing against the claim America will collapse but your examples are about the complete turnover of countries like civil war or independence whereas the folks who believe America will collapse are viewing it more like the collapse of the USSR or imperial Japan. Obviously Russia and Japan are still here but the governments that existed at the time are completely rebuilt. Nobody is claiming that the United States will somehow lose its borders or its cities they are saying that the American system as we know it politically perhaps economically as well is collapsing *from* democracy or democratic republic if youre a pedant *into* fascism or something fascistadjacent. I think you need to consider the average life span of democracies of any form we are past our expiration date in that regard. Id also look into the history of fiat currency for a likely root catalyst of national collapse. I in no way want to see the nation collapse and your various examples point to the strength of the nation to be sure but there is no guarantee of perpetuity for any nation. We can survive thousands of adverse events and it still only takes one that we dont survive to be the end. If you look at the history of nation state collapse its not a strait downward path to destruction. With the benefit of hindsight you see similar often repeated patterns and even as a state heads toward collapse there are periods of relief and optimism. === ... Still I want to know why my reasoning might not hold true and not just cant predict the future! . One of the most easiest questions in the history of the world. Tiny USAs collapse can not be avoided mostly because of external reasons. During its reign as a superpower the tiny country made many powerful enemies and these enemies are determined to disempower the country for their own national security reasons. You guys have no idea what horrible crimes the tiny country committed in Africa and that is well linked to white supremacists from mostly the southern states who are overrepresented in the CIA and the military. Those white supremacists are now viewed as nazis and SS in Africa and Latin America African descent people soon one third of humanity are realizing that the reason USA ended up as the most antiAfrican superpower in history out of ca. 16 superpowers of the last 5000 years is because of the fear of European Americans if Africa is allowed to have peace stability industrialization and development then the Africans will send armies and navies to USA to liberate African Americans. You see that USA fear led to decades of destabilizations civil wars poverty and misery on the African continent and European Americans from Southern states who enjoy to work for the CIA and the USA military and are overrepresented in those two USA institutions were main players in creating those conditions in Africa they were de facto the nazis and SS in Africa. For that reason African Americans might get support from Africa in their endeavor to create their own state as once that state is created restUSA wont have the reason to be hostile to Africa. Quote ... It looks like Africans have not yet a clear opinion about USA THE MOST ANTIAFRICAN SUPERPOWER IN HISTORY that is out of ca. 16 superpowers of the last 5000 years. Did you guys hear USA insiders that means Congress members and officials call the CIA the most evil organization ever created ? Or did you hear Bush senior linked with the CIA for decades long before becoming director in 1976 European calendar say If the American People ever find out what we have done they will chase us down the street and lynch us. ? Do you realize given the fact that the CIAs records were worst in Africa that those US Americans were talking about CIAs horrible crimes in Africa ? Quote Sad sad sad the USA is now paying for antiAfricanism with an untimely end of its empire ! Who would have thought and anticipated in 1945 European calendar that a superpower with a huge black minority with African ancestors would become the most antiAfrican superpower in history just for that reason ? The evaluation of all facts leads to the conclusion that the USA is the biggest enemy Africa ever encountered. It is the country that had a secret economic sabotage policy against the continent since 1945 European calendar that it implemented using the IMF World Bank CIA Wall Street and others ... Having undone Nkrumah the United States started to control affairs with the IMF putting a stop to Nkrumah’s industrialisation policy. Unfortunately for this hostility USA is paying with the untimely end of its empire and global rule. What we need to know here is USA cant get anywhere without the support of Africans and Asians so gigantic is their influence over the fate of that country. Really USA is not that smart as this hostility is most likely linked to the presence of African Americans in the country. There are evidences about cooperations between African leaders and African American activists. The idea of creating an African Union realized in 1963 European calendar with one of its goals to decolonize the whole continent which alarmed the West including former colonial powers like Portugal might even have come from Malcolm X. Also there are evidences about USA government concerns about the cooperations between African leaders and African American activists. Also plans how best to deal with such cooperations. When studying AfricaUSA relations the role of African Americans should not be underestimated. 1. USA or better European Americans EAs have a deep seated desire to make African Americans AAs feel that they are better off in the USA than if they would have remained in Africa. AAs are often told by EAs hey nword dont complain ! Be grateful that you live in the USA. Hadnt we brought you here you would live like those here are meant the stereotypes nword in Africa . Here we see USA has a strong desire to sabotage economic development in Africa in order to keep AAs content with their lives in the USA or to silence them when they complain. European Americans are convinced that development in Africa = trouble with African Americans in the USA. 2. USA or better EAs well aware of the crimes they committed against AAs and others are scared of revenge. So for security reasons that means to prevent Africans from building armies and navies and send them to USA to liberate AAs the USA/EAs have a strong desire to prevent industrialization in Africa. Your big ole text wall has a couple things its missing. Firstly America is already not fine. And regarding the 2a people. Its fine and dandy that they are there to protect the people from the government but right now most of those people are supporting the government that is already turning the military loose on the people. thats like the unlucky people who get killed by the air bag on a car crash that they otherwise would have survived. Sometimes safety mechanisms dont work the way they are supposed to. And America is very much not ok every time Im back in the country people are more insane more stressed and more generally nuts. There is no reason for it I mean sure we’ve endured” conflicts that seem bigger than stuff going on now if they happened today stakes would be much higher. To put it simply Americans in the earlytomid 19th century didn’t dominate the planet in economics or political/military force they were just another country. So they wouldn’t have to worry about the consequences of such conflicts or unrest. If a second Civil War or Great Depression were to occur the United States would suffer far worse consequences than we had to experience hundreds of years ago simply because we’ve become too important to the rest of the world. I like your example with Germany as a country that fell and even lost a major war that could recover. It makes sense. My concern is *how* we have our power and status at the moment. It rests upon things like our currency being used as a reserve and the rest of the world tolerating our presence militarily and otherwise all over the world. The margins that provides us have given us a hell of a life. If that collapses well definitely survive as a country but I dont think any of us are prepared for the change in quality of life that will come and likely remain in that scenario. I honestly doubt the America will collapse narrative but a stronger argument would do more to engage with the issues currently at hand. Theres a major problem with soandso has survived worse in the past people survive cancer or a heart attack all the time just to die later on from something as mundane as the common flu. We face a number of crises today and in the near future whos to say that institutions in longterm decline will be able to weather those storms just because it worked out for FDR? Not many think America the country will collapse or there will even be a civil war. But as the nations institutions degrade and every actor breaks norms to grab power in whatever manner they can the country changes into something that’s unrecognizable over time. Just how the Roman republic rotted away for a century with increasing breaches of norms and degradation of its institutions before Octavian finally killed it. Even then he didnt officially do it the empire still claimed to be the republic. We won’t be really sure if the US will end up being heavily damaged by what trump has done but it will if all conditions are met with the inaction of her people. The biggest threat to America today is not division Trump corruption or the Supreme Court. Most of those things you list are symptoms of a much deeper problem which is the death of a thing called the American Civic Religion. Which I would define as the belief that America is unique and important because it was founded as a democratic country with individual liberty and built in mechanisms to root out injustice. That’s not to say we are perfect but it was a belief that we have a Civic Duty to leave our country in better shape than we found it in. It was an optimistic belief that there is hope. This set of beliefs and values is what got America through some of the worst situations we have ever faced. Every President from Washington Lincoln FDR JFK and Reagan espoused this set of beliefs. It was a core principle of both parties for generations. The biggest problem with American politics today is that this set of virtues has been dead in both parties for a while now. Conservatives have gone from talking about America as the greatest country on Earth to saying that America is a banana republic/third world shit hole/communist country. Many liberals now believe America is irredeemably evil and oppressive because of it’s past that it is an exceptionally evil country and that the world would be better off without our presence. Politicians of either party sound less and less hopeful. Populism and conspiracy culture is dominating the political conversation on both sides of the aisle. I am not a complete cynic who believes we are destined to die but if we do not try to revive the singular set of values and beliefs that carried us through all of those crises you mention we will never come out of then stronger like previous generations did. I think youre quite mistaken. If the present instability in the US could be summed up as simply the popularity of Trump then I would agree. The rise of Trump however is not the disease its a symptom of the disease a rot that has been festering for decades and already exploded before in the Great Recession. The US has a republican system of government. Such a system depends on sober stewardship from an electorate capable of managing their countrys affairs competently or at least one intelligent enough to delegate that responsibility to competent agents. It has entered into a global information age with this system. The US electorate is simply not collectively intelligent enough to properly run the country. This contradicts the viability of the very republican system on which the US is established. The complexity of modern society is well beyond the ken of the average American voter. The cause of the Great Recession was literally this stupidity. Financial instruments had become so complicated that the people selling them no longer understood them and were thus incapable of managing them responsibly. The US government is in exactly the same predicament the modern US is such a large and complicated beast dependent on the functioning of so many interdependent pieces that its electorate no longer understands how it works or what it needs and is thus incapable of managing it responsibly. In the past this intellectual deficit was fudged. Information was mainly provided through newspapers or television outlets which only the most erudite actually found engaging. The people who had trouble understanding the world or their country simply did not participate in politics. Now however the Internet has opened people to direct engagement by ideologues influencers and foreign adversaries who want to take advantage of their stupidity to attack the very foundations of the US. Look at how Musk describes peoples fads mind virus. He recently described ignorant MAGA opposition to solar energy in these unflattering terms. And hes not wrong. But what does mind virus imply? That the electorates thoughts on such matters are not their own. That they do not seek factual technical information to determine the viability of something like solar power. It implies that the electorates thoughts are nothing more than a contagion. A more clever individual than they are an influencer or foreign social analyst or demagogue has assessed their biases and crafted some very simple and effective memes that confirm those biases. They are then manipulated into a tribe the identity of which is determined by adherence to some rudimentary ideas. Voters are nothing more than carriers of other peoples mind virii. Thus youre never actually engaging with the American electorate. Youre engaging with Vladimir Putin Steve Bannon Judith Butler or Elon Musk himself. They are fighting each other \*through\* the American electorate because enough of the electorate is incapable of critical and independent thought that they are nothing more than a mental battlefield for a minority. Your take on 1812 seems bizarre to me the US declared war on Britian because they wanted to extend their territory youve got it backwards. What do you mean by collapse? Does America have to be taken over by another country or what? Id consider America collapsed if the states and/or federal government started deliberately ignoring the Constitution and thats obviously already happened. There are some states that are still operating under the old way where everyone was equal under the law but does that count as America still standing? You say that the third reich Mao’s China and their legacies did not last as evident by the prosperity of those countries today. Do you know how many people had to die for that to happen? Let’s say you’re right and that America ends up fine in 50 75 100 years. No one wants to live through the wars human rights violations and corruption that happens until then. Is that so hard to understand? You have a lot there but you ignore what people mean by collapse and dying... Its not going to fall into the ocean. The US is showing fractures and its giving up the very advantages that made it a global power to begin with. But even after such a fall happens many Americans will simply refuse to believe it and that is largely what we are seeing. They believe their own propaganda now same as the Russians. Undefeatable military unrivaled power everyone jealous of our greatness... If any of that sounds familiar your already down that road. But go to England or Italy or France you will find no shortage of people who believe they are the powerful empire they once were and are simply graciously allowing others to stand up themselves. There is nothing you can ever say to those groups to change their minds their military cant be stopped if we went all out no one could stand against us is a common theme. Ive heard Brits in particular brag about their special forces and nuclear submarines being the best in the world and the US begs them for any of their training cause they are so many times better... I doubt you hear the same thing in the states. Your 2A is a interesting take... But it doesnt work that way. How do I know? Well you got plain clothes masked agents abducting people off the street and no one has done anything. A takeover isnt suddenly military coming in and subduing a population its stopping certain people who speak out then increasing surveillance and policing. Its not military rolling in looking like targets to take shots at its specifically targeted people and organization calling them terrorists or traitors until the only people left either support the military or regime otherwise wont speak out against them out of fear. You have a good argument BUT it actually says the opposite of what you think. It shows a ingrained belief that regardless of what happens the US will persevere because of their exceptionalism that they are different fundamentally than those who fell to the same traps that so many others have that the military cant be rivaledironically the exact same thing the other powers believe about theirs. This belief that you are given authority by power and your power is granted by God or because you are more righteous or because you are better by birthright or province or youll come out on top just keep calm and carry on or whatever excuse you feel like using this week is what kills world powers.... You wont collapse into the sea you will just enjoy the same type of power the UK has internally many believing you are still the envy of the world but the rest of the world doesnt reflect this You do see a pattern of falling of the Roman empire right? And notice 6000 years of limiting the executive branch from country to country as Europeans left middle east and Egypt. But after the invention of the radio power flowed to the executive with more and more bureaucracies and rulings in their favor. You could see this shift in the beginning of the third reich and user and china as political leaders preached doctrine of various forms of socialism and presenting it as utopias resulting in battles and starvation that in the first time in history climbed into the millions of deaths. Rome had a panic attack as everyone realized that the minting of coinage was diluted with higher percentage of another metal other than silver they debased their currency. Rome resorted to hierarchy rule via military power than economic powers. Then numerous ceasers attacked the Senate and if you can just attack the Senate you can make what ever laws you want and northern Rome fell as the bryzantines became independent. You can see this happening as scotus rules against the trump administration and now even making contempt of court against the administration impossible. And congress capitulating their power of the purse to trump after January 6th just as the Roman Senate did after being attacked. All these events dont make us stronger. As early populations could leave the country on count of an oppressive executive kings pharaohs emperors and accomplish their dreams without being encroached on the world executive branches of governments became very sensitive to human rights because their most brilliant and industrious could move and make an opposing power tower over them. Now however as politicians preach utopias that will end in failure going to somewhere that isnt infected by their delusional sense of justice is far more difficult. Edward Snowden for example had to try and apply for asylum for 20 countries to get away from the US executive as to speak out of gross violations of the executive. Again tragic events dont make us stronger as a country their just an excuse for further abuse of power. America may not collapse but the American empire will. What do I mean by American empire? I mean the state of affairs where America holds influence outsized to its population and GDP in specific areas of international politics including technological innovation and military force projection. A lot of the harms people talk about the current administration inflicting on America may not materialize or may indeed be reversible or superficial. But there are some kinds of harm where the damage is already so serious it cannot be reversed. Specifically Im talking about reputational harm on an international scale. Foreign students wont want to come study in America if theyre worried the president might treat them as pawns and revoke their visa. The global educational and research community will find alternatives and even in the best case scenario where the damaging policies are reversed and the American political mood shifts so people no longer fear those policies may be put in place again those alternatives will have built up capacity and momentum and America will never return to the dominant position it had a couple years ago. Foreign governments wont want to rely on America for their security if theyre worried Trump or his successor may capriciously cut them off or switch sides on them. Defense procurement departments will find alternatives and even if America goes back to being a reliable ally they will never be as relied upon as they once were. So even if America recovers from an internal perspective Americas special positions in the world order have an expiration date. Perhaps they always did but Trump slashed a huge chunk off of their lifespan. And America has used its power to its own benefit on many occasions so losing its power will lead to a weaker and poorer country a shell of its former self. And then its only a matter of time. If America becomes a county as poor as say Poland which is doing fine in the grand scheme of things but much less prosperous than we are now while being vastly more diverse in terms of culture and interests why should it be able to hold together? American exceptionalism is at an end and once it does fade away one has to reckon with the fact that America is huge and suffers from regional and intracultural tensions much bigger than those faced by the average nation. On your point about Germany if youre hypothesizing that America can get that deep into fascism and come out fine the same way Germany is there are several flaws with this. Germany was only able to recover from their crimes because 1. the world received a form of justice through the criminal trials at the Hague. 2. they lost their ability to form an armed force. This is not possible for America. We forged these international laws. We are the ones who enforce these laws. What happens when we no longer abide by them? Germany are not world leaders in anything with power over others and they never were. What makes America unique is we are the world military enforcement we have single handedly kept Europe from going to war with each other again we have prosecuted genocides and fought injustices around the world we protect democratic countries from invasion. Right now the world is looking at us as a threat to the western democracy we single handedly cultivated and protected from fascism. If we cant be trusted anymore we are a threat to everyone. And if the only way to stop us from human rights violations in our own country such as in 1940s Germany is a world war they are not getting a leash around us as we did with Germany. The most likely outcome is that we will go the same way the soviet union went and our states will fracture into whos behind trump and whos not. By the end of it well divided into different countries and many of us will be dead. Comparing us to 1940s Germany being okay in the aftermath is not realistic. We are too big too fundamentally divided and too influential to be collared by a democratic force greater than us without coming out of it severely fractured. The economy is the backbone of the country. As long as 80% or so of people can continue working for money to pay their bills and feed their families the country will not collapse. Trumps liberation day tariff announcement showed just how fragile that condition is though. Empty shelves. People out of work or replaced by AI. Growing tension surrounding ICE/immigration. Its easy to see how even one condition could upset the economy enough to crash the country but we have multiple conditions threatening to do so. If LA goes violent Trump will invoke the insurrection act and declare protesters dissenters or even hecklers as terrorists and will sic his army/kkk fanboys ICE on everyone. That would disrupt the fuck out of people working as many people would be afraid to leave their homes have been arrested or worse or have been let go from their jobs since they fought back and their boss/company is a Trump sympathizer. Were already facing shortages of goods because of the *uncertainty* Trumps tariffs caused let alone actual tariffs or other shitty policies that could impact labor and by extension the supply chain. We already see the impact as empty shelves at stores for certain goods. And dont get me started on the issue of prices/money. Whatever goods are still in circulation are typically too much anyway. So theres a lot of practical reason to believe that the countrys collapse *could* happen. Some are even saying were already collapsing slowly. My examples are more sudden and probably in line with what you meant though. You seem like an intelligent and eloquent person I respect your optimism and you seem well researched on US history. Here is my argument. 1st You are not the same person you were 5 years ago. The country is not the same as it was just 4 months ago. Can we ever get back to where we were? Yes but that doesnt make it the same. Is Germany today the same Germans that let Hitler rise to power? Is it the same Germany? No. These monumental shifts in history fundamentally change everything except sometimes the name. 2nd A history of survival doesnt grant survival today. All the events you listed its true that in some or most ways the USA survived. But the world has changed and we have changed within. What are American Ideals? Are we the lamd of the free with mass incarceration? Are we the home of the brave while our soilders march on our cities? Are we the land of opportunity where people cant afford the costs of living? Are we the worlds strongest democracy where a tyrant sits at the presidents desk? In many ways America has already fallen. 3rd Why do Empires fall? Why did Rome fall? Military overspending overexpansion government corruption political instability the Christian church any of those sound familiar? No? What about Persia unchecked spending and failed military events. So my point is what do you mean survive? Will there still be a country called the USA? Yes probably. Will it be the land of opportunity will the American dream survive? I think theyre already dead. 1 The end of the American Hegemony/Empire is not the same as the end of the USA. All that needs to happen to end hegemony is a breakdown in foreign relations and alliances. Trump can singlesidedly break agreements that wont be recreated when he departs and has singlehandedly reduced the perceived value of the US as a partner. As far as your historical perspectives the empire only existed in the post WW2 era when nothing bad happened to the US. And the isolationist faction prone to breaking international commitments was in abeyance till Trump. 2 Surviving worse means nothing. There have been people who survived dropping out of planes w/o parachutes at altitude. Being lucky there doesnt make them less breakable by a guy with a bat or being hit by a car. You survive till you dont. An 1% chance of the country ending is a 1% chance even if the country has previously navigated through a worse 20% chance event. 3 Id grant you that there is a strong national identity so ending is implausible. However using end to refer to a bloody interlude of civil war doesnt seem hyperbole. Sure the US might still be known as the US after a Maolike killing of tens of millions or a Germanlike firebombing of all cities and be rebuilt into a major nation in later decades. That doesnt make the dead bodies less tragic or destructive. What’s happening now is different from anything we’ve ever experienced. We have a man in office literally defying courts and the constitution and nobody is stopping him. This sounds very similar to statements against climate change amounting to nitpicking of wording lol the planet isnt going to be destroyed! While ignoring that no one is actually arguing the planet is going to be physically destroyed but that modern societies cant coexist with the world ACC creates. Use of Germany and the PostCivil War is a good example. Germany had its government torn down by the allies and was heavily monitored as well as bifurcated for decades. If thats your definition of not collapsing fine but Id argue your definition isnt useful. Likewise both of these events are still basically unfolding. A lot of the effects being felt currently have their origin in the Civil War for instance. Basically a generation since the Civil Rights movement the actual result that the Civil War should have led to a hundred years prior. The reaction to it is what leads to a lot of modern Republican stances in trying to cement their position after the party switch marrying themselves to the Southern Dixiecrats who were fleeing a party seen as helping the freed slaves too much. So you can point to us having the Civil War and moving on but its way too soon to actually claim that. I want to try to change your view by nitpicking a very minor point from early in your post you said that doom &amp gloom doesnt help anyone. Sometimes getting bad news or a dose of reality is extremely helpful. For example lets say you have a friend you love and they make $50k per year at their job. They have $360k in credit card debt and every year they have to pay $10k just to pay the interest on their debts. Your friend likes to spend about $80k per year so their plan is to borrow an extra $30k every year to keep up appearances. Your friend desperately needs a reality check they are in dire peril financially and pretending otherwise makes their situation worse not better. The US governments financial situation is similar to this friend except the scale of the numbers is so high that there is no possible relief. Your friend might get bailed out by a rich aunt or a federation of charitable aunts but the USA cant get bailed out because no aunt not even aunty bezos or musk have anywhere near enough money to bail them out. There are few ways to crawl out of this and all of them will be exxrutiatingly painful for regular people. 36 trillion of debt. Lets start there. How can this country thrive? If it is paying 1 trillion to service debt every year?? Any clear answers for that? I think the decline of the US dollar is going to be a pivotal moment in Americas international positioning tbh estimating how far we will drop is a very complex if not impossible task. Just thinking out loud the polarization of left vs right has only been increasing for the past 2 decades. If we are to experience a economic event as significant as the dollar collapsing I think there is enough fuel to create rips in the US social fabric that will take beyond our lifetime to heal. The US is currently evolving into a sanctuary for the most powerful global capitalists and I dont use the term capitalist lightly. Although I think the influx of foreign capital in the US will keep the power structure of this country alive the domestic people will be gentrified and the soul of this nation will continue to bifurcate. I am not worried about collapse... I am worried that we will evolve into a society that we currently would find despicable. You make good points with historical comparisons on the issues where that reinforces your position. But you ignore the instances where the unprecedented is happening that don’t have historical analogs. The two biggest being Jan 6th and this deployment of the Marines in direct violation of the Posse Comitatus Act. We had a sitting president organize and manufacture fake electors to steal the presidency. He was not punished legally or politically but in fact rewarded with reelection. Entirely unprecedented and not a sign of stability. And the military wasn’t even called in to quell protests during the Civil Rights Movement when law enforcement were actively siccing attack dogs on protesters over fifty years ago. Because everyone knows it’s illegal to use the military against the populace. But Trump does not care. He is a breaker of norms. Like these. And possibly some of the seemingly reasonable restrictions you lay out here. I disagree with the 2A point the government has the ENTIRE military of USA aka the strongest nation in terms of military in their hands. They will barely need to send actual soldiers unless situation got rly out of control. In this HYPOTHETICAL scenario where US military is fighting US civilians they COULD absolutely flatten every protest. Also the military ABSOLUTELY will bomb their own citizens. Its not like the president who will do all this will be unpopular he will have support from many american citizens and only those protesting will get targeted in name of protecting democracy. Even the people in the military will slowly be replaced by those who support the president unconditionally in the years leading up to the full dictatorship mode of the country thats the step 1 u need to make the military doesnt turn against u. Good thing is I dont any of this will happen but Im just saying guns wont do anything Collapse doesnt occur overnight or even four years usually. Trump is a symptom of a much deeper problem with our society culture and system. There is no going back after this he is testing our system and it is failing so unless we make laws to fix it e.g. limit executive powers provide a clearer and stronger way for courts to enforce decisions make laws sufficiently strong so when a Congress and Executive are lockstep they cant just burn everything down. I dont think well be able to fix most of these problems. Also climate change/global warming is going to fuck up everything beyond what many seem able to conceptualize. Global warming will lead to widespread collapse of not only global ecosystems were already in a human caused mass extinction but also economies and food production. We arent prepared and that will lead to collapse if Trumpian style populism/protofascism doesnt. I agree with your overall points. I think the internet has homogenized some reactions to events for certain groups which makes it feel more present and pressing then it would otherwise be. I recommend a podcast called fall of civilizations” it shows in every example civilizations don’t exactly collapse into nothing. It’s usually a slow process and not everyone in the moment are all unified into the same narrative. It’s only later historians decide what the main historical narrative may be. The US could go on for 1000 more years but historians could perhaps point to this period as the start of future troubles. As long as people exist to witness events you’ll have some yahoos proclaiming the end is nigh. But it never truly is and even if it is you probably wouldn’t notice. Collapse of civilizations are not as dramatic as we think they are. America is a declining empire. All of the things you listed are arguably symptoms of that decline. The cause though is just capitalism and geostrategic inevitability. There were lots of reasons for America’s 19th century and postwar booms. However those conditions are gone and will probably never return. In addition China is clearly going to make America less and less relevant on the world stage and there isn’t anything we can do about that. Empires always crumble. Whether that’s gentle and healthy or devastating and violent is the question. Europe if full of countries like England that were once massive global powers that have settled into being small pretty healthy social democracies. On the other hand Germany basically blew up the world in the 1930s instead of reckoning with the end of its greatpower status. You make no mention of 5th gen warfare climate change or the automization of work. We are facing polycrisis while our leadership seems to be dedicated to underminining the system and personnel enrichment. The globalism and free trade period is already largely over. Nations are all scrambling to get their economies on a war footing. Maybe collapse needs more defining. Maybe I just see a slow denouement across the board and think itll keep on that trend and I am calling it collapse. Maybe you are looking for a really dramatic cascade? On my 2025 bingo Ive only got midwest urban firestorm and inadequate response to a hurricane left for a row so lets check back in a couple months and see where on the collapse track we think we are? It started with a complete misunderstanding of the basis 9f War of 1812 and only got worse from there... Is the American system in death throes? Well it depends on what you mean by that. Since you appear to not believe that Hitler represented the collapse of the German system then I’d have to agree Trump is not the collapse of the American. However I remain worried about jailing dissidents concentration camps and economic collapse. Also worth noting fascism was purged from Germany by occupying powers. That seems pretty unlikely to save us. And with regards to the argument that We’ve faced dark times before” sure we have. In the same sense France had faced dark times during WW1 but that doesn’t mean they avoided occupation during WW2. Surviving one challenge doesn’t guarantee surviving the next. I do not think it will collapse because I think what we are seeing is just America as it is. This is a nation that has never healed its division from civil war. They erected monuments to the traitors in the war they fly the flag to this day they call it their history and celebrate it. America voted for what we are seeing now. Did they all? Obviously not. But enough chose not to vote and enough voted for what is happening. It wont collapse I agree. But the reason why is not because America will somehow find away to come out on top but because this is simply what America is. Trump is the epitome of it all a symptom of a disease that was never cured but merely went into remission for a while. During the 20th century America developed a unique international status that has not been meaningfully challenged in decades. America is the single most influenced cultur worldwide the American currency the Dollar is very important in the international finance marked and so on. These facts are about to change. The American industry is no longer the most productive. The use of power has generated resistance against America as the last superpower. Even the cultural influence is challenged by things like Anime. On the other hand America is more political polarized than at any time in the 20th century. This is such a long rant that I won’t even bother countering it but I just lol’ed at Germany briefly slid into fascism but now are basically ok” take. I think it slightly undersells what happened in between doesn’t it? The meteor that killed the dinosaurs wiped out 97% of life of earth but now life is basically ok no biggie”? Yeah Japan got nuked twice but now they’re basically ok” When Japan invaded China they were so brutal that certain events were dubbed ‘the rape of Nanking’ . But now China is basically ok Need I go on? The current president is a game show host that struggles to understand basic concepts or what’s going on around him. The one before him was a mummy with dementia. Government for the foreseeable future will change hands every 4 years like a hot potato because neither party is capable of helping people only managing decline. We manufacture nothing outside of ways to funnel money to the top. We’re cooked and riding out the last days of empire. I don’t know about collapse” but we’re falling further and further and there’s no ladder in sight. I dont think it will collapse but great change is needed and it was needed a long time ago the longer we wait to change the closet we get to collapse. Issue is nobody wants to change. We cant do 2 party systems we cant give social security without taxing the rich we have to start taxing the rich we have to have reforms to how much the average American works in relation to how much they earn we need to address the birthing crisis before were the next Japan which is basically already happening problem with all these is were ignoring them I think you’re mixing up the existence of a cultural group with a functioning nation. America is not a fetus” it is one of the oldest continually functioning governments on Earth. When Germany fell after WWII that Germany died. The thriving Germany we’ve seen since then is a totally new institution built around the shared cultural heritage of Germany. The fears that the America we know now is dying aren’t unfounded it may very well not exist in a century in its current form. Whatever might replace it will be something new I have a definitional problem with your assertion. What is collapse to you? You also refer to a collapse of the US in your title but then also mention a possible collapse of the Amerifan Empire and however exactly we define the latter these are fundamentally different things. The collapse of the Amerifan Empire doesnt inherently imply the collapse of the US or it turning into a failed state. Its difficult to make an argument about will X collapse yes or no? if we arent clear on what X is or what collapse is. I just want to touch on one thing people say the American Empire because America is an imperialist state. It’s an accurate description. The US has used and still uses genocide slavery and colonial war to expand its territory and sphere of influence. Manifest Destiny the annexation of Hawaii occupation of the Philippines the Vietnam war the gulf war patronage of Israel countless cia backed coups around the globe the list of imperial actions taken by United States is much much longer than this Did you REALLY just use Germany as an example of how things can turn out OK? Germany was leveled utterly decimated as a result of that war. The ONLY reason they are thriving is because the US and other nations rebuilt their country. Do you expect there would be someone to do that for us? Oh and half their country was reduced to a poor vassal state for 40 years. And they are still dealing with the guilt of The Holocaust. I don’t think any German would say it turned out fine”. Collapse is a strong word. Economics keeps empires afloat. America had an economic advantage after ww2 that rose it to prominence. Economic pieces and competition in place that show decline. We are 50 years I believe from seeing the us as a secondary major nation. Borders and times are different so it will not be a full on collapse but we are in the middle of the end stage of international prominence. Im surprised that you thought out the situation in this much detail but dont touch on income inequality. Its a global issue but particularly stark here and directly related to our current troubles. The CIA tracks income inequality internationally because it is a key predictor of social and national collapse. I havent had the stomach to check recently... Whats the US Gini coefficient at these days? If your point is that the US will exist after Trump then sure you are right. But you seem to be ignoring the avoidable suffering that people experienced through the eras you mention. It’s easy to say yes the Great Depression sucked but the US is still here. The ultra rich will flourish the rich will manage and the rest of us will be used as human fuel to feed their greed. I see the argument a lot that things so far have not been bad enough to end America. I think most doomers arent concerned with what is happening right now but that the stars have aligned to make things much worse in the near future safeguards eliminated theres no one left to tell Trump no etc [removed] It definitely wont collapse were too well guarded for that. But it does feel like America is changing. For better or worse I dont really know. When Rome shifted from Republic to Empire it didnt stop it just changed. Some of those changes were good and some were bad. Youre looking at times when the United States DID collapse and saying that it didnt because eventually things went back to normal. This is a question of values not facts. There is no way in which the American Civil War is not a collapse for example. Youre example of Nazi Germany...makes no sense. We are heading in that direction. Thats exactly what someone arguing we are heading towards collapse would say. The fact that we arent there yet is irrelevant and the fact that Germany recovered is irrelevant. By the logic you are applying Hitler wasnt that bad because Germany got better. If you dont have a definition of collapse the argument will go nowhere. Here in Asia we see American collapse as hegemony collapse not as a total collapse of a nation. Well unless states want to break free from the federal government. OP all empires eventually collapse. So America will for certain. When? Impossible to say. Looks to me though like they are on the downhill side way past the peak and picking up speed. Given the GDPDebt ratio for the U.S. is an alltime high and highly unsustainable it is quite literally on the brink of economic collapse especially if Trump pursues this tax bill. A nation with a foreign policy as aggressive as ours and with no manufacturing base or access to raw materials loses the next major war 100% guaranteed. We are still riding the inertia of World War II victory. The entitlement is absurd and the whole world is waking up to it. USA still has the best military though at least for another decade or so. Does this follow the rules of change my view? America declared war of 1812 Like how can you have a real discussion when someone dosnt recognize an easily verified fact. Every single empire ever has collapsed and every empire that exists right now will too someday. That doesn’t mean it’s gonna be tomorrow or in the near future but some day it absolutely will. No offense but very often you liberate yourself only to fight the oppressor again. Just ask the Baltics about the USSR.Or Poland about both Germany and the USSR. The question isnt whether America is going to collapse. The question is are its people going to do what will be needed to make something even better out of it? 250 fetal period? Actually this is the ICU period. If a strong hero does not emerge this country will suddenly collapse at any time in the next 50 years. I’ve never died in a car crash before so that must mean no matter what happens I won’t die in one currently.” Sure. Makes sense. /s 🙄 Im just here to comment that I stopped reading after you made it clear that you dont think America is an empire after the first few lines Well this won’t be popular here. How dare you not say the richest most powerful country world is a shit hole on the bridge of collapse. Rome survived Nero Never did we have Social Media algorithms in our history. Newspapers manipulated our views now we get manipulated a different way. Saying nothing in response to insults and certain arguments is more powerful I’m really looking for someone to change my view on this since it’s usually the route I go down and I’m looking to see if it’d be better to say something back. Sometimes it’s due to the fact that I can’t think of something witty or I can’t think of a response in an argument that’s intelligent enough. So usually I’ll just say nothing and walk away. The insult piece makes more sense to me since it can show you’re not petty enough to engage. But I feel like in an argument it just makes you look dumb. Maybe I have to work on my debate skills Edit this is not referring to any bigoted statements or arguments… I do believe you should speak up in those and call someone out for their terrible behavior and views. I’m referring to smaller things like arguments with coworkers and individuals and just assholes in general who are being pricks but aren’t being racist or sexist or homophobic or anything of the sort So usually I’ll just say nothing and walk away. The insult piece makes more sense to me since it can show you’re not petty enough to engage. But I feel like in an argument it just makes you look dumb. I loathe this attitude. Everyone standing around while a grown man throws a temper tantrum is fine somehow but as soon as you say something youre just being petty. Rolling over to every asshole is why there are so many assholes. It is better to pretend that you dont understand the insult and then make them explain it in as much detail as you can. This ultimately makes them look foolish as they try to justify an unjustifiable comment and you look like the reasonable adult. This seems highly dependent on context. 1. Looking out for other people is a good thing to do. Sometimes a response to an insult is for the benefit of others. E.G. if youre in a group that has accepted the behavior of someone that youre able to just absorb and deal with it doesnt mean that others are feeling the same way even if they also are not responding. There are absolutely situations in which calling out via a response the behavior of someone is an assist to a little miniculture within your peer/social group an office group etc. 2. if its a pattern with just you and the person then the pattern going on means it will probably continue to go on. Want it to change? You gotta change the response. I think at the end of the day most people dont do the strategic thing in these situations they do the most comfortable easy for them thing. For someone that is blowing up and responding for some its ignoring it and so on. What I think is always good to know is that there are a variety of strategies that would work and the best one of us can decide when to deploy which of them based on the context and circumstances even if some of them feel less natural to us. Maybe more powerful than insulting someone or avoiding looking dumb... but not the most powerful response. You want to move from reacting to responding. The goal is to say your point for others to hear and engage with and nobody can hear your points if you say nothing which ironically might be insulting to the person speaking with you and they may percieve you to be dumb by your reaction of silence. Yes learn about debate argument and communicaton. Debates and arguments do not have to be fights they are simply an exchange of ideas. Arguments do not have to be negative they can be quite healthy and productive. Look at Socrates Plato Aristotle and the classics about scholarly debate and argumentative communication and this knowledge may indeed help you get passed this common learning curve of looking dumb or relying upon adversarial communication like insults. I think it depends on the tone and effectiveness of the comeback. At court I often just remain quiet and the let the other person embarrass themselves anger the judge etc. Sometimes Ill throw in a humorous remark to show the other person Im not bothered by their tantrum/antics. Once I got an entire bar to laugh at a woman who was bothering me she turned red and her and her boyfriend left. That was cool. But if you deliver a lame comeback or seem rattled then yes you might lose face. I think it can set you up for further insults and awkward moments the more powerful thing to do is respond with kindness it feels much better afterwards Youre conflating how to handle a troll online ignore them with how to handle RL incidents. You need to read the room and gauge the situation. In many circumstances you need to push back and draw boundaries because avoidance will be taken as weakness inviting more abuse. Its important to calibrate the intensity and nature of your pushback to be appropriate for the situation. Sometimes you dont dignify the insult with a response because theyre so beneath you. Or because its a trap designed to provoke a response leading to an unwinnable situation. Or because responding is not appropriate under the circumstances. The main takeaway here is READ THE ROOM. Any conscious effort to prevent ego damage in any circumstance is itself evidence that you were bothered. It depends on how the people surrounding the situation respond. If enough of the people surrounding the situation think that walking away peacefully is the right response then it is. If you are unfortunately surrounded by people who consider you mentally weak for walking away then you might find yourself subject to more unwanted situations they may consider you a viable target to vent their psychosis on. Sometimes it probably is but not always. Say someone starts shouting slurs against a minority group in public or even at a specific person. Maybe even you. Sure engaging can have negative consequences but is it not better to accept those consequences but also show people to whom that slur applies that that sorta stuff doesn’t go unaddressed around those parts? Like everything it depends where its coming from. It depends if the insult affects you. If it doesnt affect you not responding shows groundededness. If it does affect you then your options are to say nothing and submit or have a comeback to dominate them in an ego based way and neither of those approaches are helpful for humanity There are two ways to respond to terrible arguments. The first is to ask poignant and targeted questions that reveal the idiocy of the argument. The second is to state facts simply and not waver from the point. You will never convince the person youre arguing with but you may convince bystanders with basic knowledge and common sense. Depends. Sometimes if someone is being dishonest you need to stop them in their tracks However if youre just going in circles it doesnt make much sense to continue Heres what I say instead I feel perfectly fine with letting anyone else decide which one of us made the better argument or even just looks better It really depends on the type of argument and also what you mean by powerful. While not engaging and walking away is usually a good choice if you can dismantle the persons entire argument in just a few words that is very powerful as well. I think literally saying nothing does seem to convey the wrong message. I think responding that you think you disagree but may need some time to think about it and work out why and how to express it can be pretty disarming. Best way to defend yourself is agree with their insults and arguments. But keeping asking them more detail questions this will throw them off because theyre looking for a fight not a debate the superior option is to have the correct position beforehand and adopt a condescending tone because you know youre right Dont argue with stupid people they will drag you down to their level and beat you with experience. Had Sanders became president he would be extremely unpopular very quickly. Either in 2016 or 2020 he would not have been able to enact his agenda and would have been stonewalled by a republican or truncated congress. His supporters would just stay home in the next election and he would quickly become very unpopular as M4A isn’t enacted. Moreover his health would be arguably worse than Biden as Sanders is older and already had a heart attack so he would not be a physically good shape to run for reelection. If elected in 2016 he is labeled as a commie for lockdowns and tossed out. If elected in 2020 he is unable to do anything in the aftermath of covid as republicans would stonewall his budgets his supreme court pick and possibly a cabinet pick or two. This puts any longterm goal of Sanders’ in a coma with no clear plan forward. Since he was more likely to win in 2020 we will go over there the senate ended up at 50/50 but since Sanders would have to resign the republican governor of Vermont would appoint the 51st senator making it 49/51. That means no student debt cancelation no green new deal no M4A and no tax overhaul. His voters would just believe him to be a liar or just grow to apathetic to show up in the Midterms while republicans turn out on mass to defeat communism”. In the lead up to 2024 Sanders may run and likely lose or hand it to his VP. Either in 2016 or 2020 he would not have been able to enact his agenda and would have been stonewalled by a republican or truncated congress. His supporters would just stay home in the next election and he would quickly become very unpopular as M4A isn’t enacted. Moreover his health would be arguably worse than Biden as Sanders is older and already had a heart attack so he would not be a physically good shape to run for reelection. If elected in 2016 he is labeled as a commie for lockdowns and tossed out. If elected in 2020 he is unable to do anything in the aftermath of covid as republicans would stonewall his budgets his supreme court pick and possibly a cabinet pick or two. This puts any longterm goal of Sanders’ in a coma with no clear plan forward. Since he was more likely to win in 2020 we will go over there the senate ended up at 50/50 but since Sanders would have to resign the republican governor of Vermont would appoint the 51st senator making it 49/51. That means no student debt cancelation no green new deal no M4A and no tax overhaul. His voters would just believe him to be a liar or just grow to apathetic to show up in the Midterms while republicans turn out on mass to defeat communism”. In the lead up to 2024 Sanders may run and likely lose or hand it to his VP. I would like to hear the thought of you guys? [removed] 2020? Yes agreed. I think it would have done decent damage to the progressive movement in the US had he have won and I think both parties are happy it was Biden handling the shtshow during and postpandemic. That was a popularity sinkhole for politicians. 2016 though? I disagree. Just to get it out of the way immediately we know from Hindsight that Sanders was able to still work in government from 20172021 without kicking the bucket or coming all that close to that so the health argument is not one I think can be used if we are talking about 16’. Sanders had he have won in 16’. Would have beaten Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump. This would mean there would have been no controversy regarding the Democratic Party establishment thwarting populist movements and would have proved to the republican party that further moderating especially on messaging and social issues to compete for seats in government. This alone and its impact on the midterms would have kept Sanders popularity well above extremely unpopular”. Sure M4A and other deeply progressive parts of his agenda would have not been likely to come to fruition in the 20172021 congresses and I won’t bother delving too deeply into the hypothetical scenarios where he flips tons of seats from conservatives and moderates to liberals and progressives because frankly it’s a waste of time. What matters more however is the impact of his veto power. It is my main criticism of your argument that it does not well enough consider that with Sanders guarding each and every bill’s passing that you would see much more carefully addressed policies especially when it comes to effects on the health of the middle/working class. This in my view changes quite a bit. I believe you would see significant support for his states positions on a lot of legislation throughout the country. This is because despite his headline worthy statements and very progressive speeches Sanders is pragmatic in a way that the average American can relate to. Just take the gun control debates from the primaries. Sanders was criticized for being too soft” because he suggested that *gun control* is a completely different topic of debate when talking about NYC vs. rural Vermont and that certain policies concessions should be considered by progressives especially in certain states. I’ll never forget what a breath of fresh air this realistic position was. That’s the difference for me. Most conservatives may not like him ever and some progressives may be upset over him not being able to pass things like M4A like they expected but overall I would argue at least 45% of Americans would feel like they have a president who was focused on keeping us out of wars keeping the lower and middle classes protected and maintaining a good objective viewpoint on many issues not clouded by wealthier interests. Can’t guarantee that everyone would see it that way but I would argue that extremely unpopular” would be almost impossible. Even if he failed to bring about a single massive progressive policy change he would at least be within a few points of where the last president finished which was largely neutral. You don’t need to make a hypothetical about his health we can see both their health with hindsight now. Bernie has not aged worse than Biden in any sense. So to be clear... You are not saying that Sanders would be unpopular because of M4A or any other policy he was trying to enact. Rather you are saying that he would become unpopular because the Republicans would refuse to accept his leadership. In essence then your view is that the Republicans can stonewall and refuse to play ball but their popularity will not suffer instead the popularity of the person they are pouncing on would. So I guess your view would apply if *anybody* on the democratic side of the isle that won in those two elections including Biden yes? Or is there something specifically about Sanders that would make him particularly unappealing? I think youre dismissing the power of the bully pulpit and Sanders willingness to use it. He could be on TV everyday talking about wealth inequality and universal health care. Two already popular things that he could make even more popular. Hes also able and willing to hold a 10k person rally in the district of any key swing Congressperson. I think his domestic agenda would be very popular but he would probably be more left on foreign policy than people are comfortable with so unpopular there. Overall though Bernies approval rating has always been high. People like him because hes seen as honest and authentic so I dont see people changing their minds on that outside of some corruption scandal. 2016 Bernie winning is a huge whatif. He wins and becomes the de facto leader of the Democratic party. They would be forced to adapt and Progressives all over would be encouraged to run against uncooperative Dems and obstructionist Republicans. If he doesn’t get his agenda in the first 2 years he mobilizes to get a more progressive congress to move through policies that would be immensely popular. Does 2016 loser Trump still try to cry foul about election results? He distracts the Republican base and those in power probably flounder around trying to figure out where to go from here. Bernie actually wants to make change and doesn’t care about corporate interests. He also gets to put in at least 2 Supreme Court justices and that’s presuming Kennedy waits it out instead of retiring. He also makes extremely better choices with COVID but the economy probably does take a hit in a similar way and he loses in 2020 unless the Republicans put up a dud. We are wayyyyy better off regardless of the 2020 results. As for 2020? Very hard to tell. Bernie was likely even more popular then than he was in 2016. He has semblances of a progressive bloc in congress and gets to work straight away to undo the damage of Trump. One of his big weaknesses is he likes to play nice with his opponents so he likely wouldn’t do any more than Biden did for trying to hold Trump accountable to his crimes. I think he’d be a more effective president than Biden just because he has further convictions while Biden mostly just wanted to return to pre2016. Presuming the presidency doesn’t erode his health too much he should be able to maintain his vigor but he likely opts to not run in 2024 and either endorses a candidate early or lets the primaries run their course. Biden was return to normal” while Bernie would have done more to actually excite people. Either way I do see how you could think he’d be stonewalled but a President who isn’t owned by corporate interests should be able to maintain high levels of popularity. He definitely wouldn’t be able to do everything he wanted in one term but his presidency would define a generation of American politics. Not reading a word of that maybe confront why your guy ate shit and alienated a majority of the country instead of beating off over hypotheticals Those who think Sanders could not win have to remember what happened with Trump. When Trump entered the primary he was widely ridiculed as a complete nonstarter that nobody would take seriously. He ran neck and neck with and barely squeaked by wins over republican candidates. He was universally hated to the point where many candidates dropped out and endorsed Ted Cruz a man that is universally hated by both parties. John Boehner called him the most miserable son of a bitch Ive ever met in my life. After Trump barely squeaked by a win in the primaries he goes against a historically unpopular Hillary Clinton and is widely ridiculed as a complete nutjob. He barely squeaks by a win losing the popular vote by millions but winning key states by hairthin margins. People forget how he couldnt win prolife voters because he had a long history of prochoice statements he couldnt win republican voters because he voted and donated extensively to democrats even Hillary Clinton previously he couldnt win the religious vote because he knew nothing about Christianity and was an adulterer and committed numerous crimes he couldnt win the business person vote because he was a failure in business etc... Trump could not win any segment of the vote according to popular opinion yet he won them all because although they didnt like him they sure as hell werent going to vote for the other person. It was the first election in recent US history maybe ever where the majority of voters for each candidate did not vote FOR their candidate they just hated the other candidate more and voted AGAINST their most hated candidate. Fast forward to 2025 and he is the undisputed face of the republican party and republicans are more solidly voting together and unified under him than under any other republican president perhaps in history. His power is absolute with nobody daring to step out of line for fear of instant career suicide. I have yet to hear an explanation for why Trump could pull this off but Sanders could not for all the same reasons. Through his constant media pressure he has now shifted the country so far to the right that I literally am debating friends and family members on whether democracy is preferable or not to a Trump dictatorship Im serious Ive had this exact talk a couple times already. This would have been unthinkable in 2015. Any possibility of him being president ended in 2015 when he was unable to stop Black Lives Matter activists from taking over the mic at one of his rallies. This was seen as very limp of him. That’s why people like him or Mayor Pete aren’t serious candidates. They may be able to debate well but they aren’t leaders of men. Pragmatists are typically better presidents than idealogues Your assumption is that Republicans would not vote for any agenda Bernie put forward which is maybe true. Obviously Bernie could have tried the same agenda as Biden with equal lack of success but you are overlooking the possibility of doing a deal. What if Bernie threatened to veto a bunch of bills that favored corporate interests unless a few Republicans backed some moderate version of his socialist agenda. Maybe it wouldnt be Medicare For All but it could be a Medicare / Medicaid expansion. Since Bernies agenda is pretty popular a few Republicans might not be afraid of voting for it and since Bernie isnt tied to corporate interests he wouldnt be afraid to make good on the threat of torpedoing their bills. Disagree. Sanders lost because his policies and beliefs were not popular. If he won that would mean a dramatic shift in sentiment Sander has the same cult following as Trump. They are both protectionist and speak to the popukist movement that is overtaking the country. If Sanders won he wouod maintain a base level of fervant support which would help him implement slightly reduced extreme policies. While I largely agree with you I think one thing to consider is that in a world where Sanders was at the top of the ticket more young and progressive voters couldve turned out which couldve given him a majority in Congress. These historical what ifs are tough though. He lost both primaries where the winner won an outright majority of primary voters. So I generally dont buy the narrative that either primary was stolen from him. If voters wanted him they couldve voted for him. And how influential could any DNC prefertial treatment be if that same treatment was so ineffective at other times? I just dont buy it and I think a majority of voters do not share their views on Reddit forums so its easy to see an innacurate snapshot of the zeitgeist online. He would be unpopular. But Id argue that doesnt mean much when the past 3 president have tested approval lows not seen in 50 years. …what’s the point in trying to be convinced out of a hypothetical world that doesn’t exist and literally no one could possibly know anything about? This is just you wanting to speculate with a bunch of randos and talk about your feelings toward Bernie and how you think your gauge of the American public is more accurate than anyone else’s. Me a huge sanders support agree nothing would get done in his term of presidency. However youre assuming Sanders would be popular enough to win the electoral vote but not so popular his supporters wouldnt blame congress for holding everything up. I dont know that I agree there. Wed see through the corporate interests holding back his agenda. I also think the 3 months of interm senator before a special election would confirm a democrat wouldnt be that impactful. But overall yes he would be stonewalled Who would Sanders choose as his VP? My guess is Amy Klobuchar in an attempt to unite the party. We have no idea what would happen if Sanders became the Democratic nominee and won in either 2016 or 2020. Its hard to argue with a whatif scenario. What would it take to change your view? There are a few things we can say. If Sanders won the nomination either time were left with a lot of potential situations that could play out. However if were starting from the point that he wins the Presidency that would mean that there would have been a groundswell of support for him that didnt come out in the primaries. Were talking about the political landscape changing like it did when Trump won in 2016. This means that the makeup of the House and Senate would likely be different or the environment would at least. In the Senate in 2016 wed have to assume that Wisconsin and Pennsylvania have Dems winning instead of Republicans in their races. Both were considered toss ups at the time. In the Senate in 2020 we could have had races in Iowa and North Carolina shift Dem. But its all speculation and the only thing we could go off of is that Bernie becoming the nominee in either election and winning would mean he has a lot more support than he did in those primaries. Its kind of hard to engage with this because its more fan fiction than based on anything we can really discuss. A lot of things can happen without any evidence. Using what happened after an event that is drastically altered does not work well. What if Bernie remains very popular in office despite resistance from members of Congress? What if his popularity and his use of the Presidency leads to pressure on politicians to cave? We could easily say that in a world where Bernie has the momentum and support to win he is operating with a less hostile climate. The republican governor of Vermont would have put in a democrat. I am not sure why you would think otherwise. He would have been lame duck from day 1. Congress would have zero reason to support an independent’s agenda. We would not be in the mess we are now and he would have been popular If youre still answering anything about this I want to change your view on one specific point I think if Sanders had won in 2020 we would have lost at least Ossofs seat in Georgia if not more. Most Republican voters did not like Biden but were not scared of him in the same way they are about Sanders. I think theres a good chance we see a much higher Republican turnout in Georgia during the special election if Sanders is the president instead of Biden. I think theres also a good chance we wouldve lost one of the other Senate seats in November but thats hard to see assuming a world where Bernie is the nominee. The part your missing is that had he won his progressive agenda would then have been pushed at all. Regardless of its success it would have forced politicians to have to actually then fight against it. Which would require the Dems to have to come out and bbe against the policies they claim to advocate for. Even for Republicans it would be a hard fight as most ideas like ending wars universal healthcare and better education are extremely popular. It would not be a good look. Unfortunately Dems are held to the same masters as Republicans. Same donors both sides just cant get a red suit in California so they have them out on a blue one. They forced Bernie out in order to avoid having to pull off that veneer. Im not sure how much you have been paying attention but the Republicans have been HARD stonewalling everything Democrats have been trying to do since at least Obamas second term. A lot of the good things Biden did was through executive orders and not as much through congress so Im not really sure why you think a Sanders president wouldnt function similarly. This short term focus on only talk about trying to do stuff you can currently accomplish is killing the Democratic partys future stone dead. Republicans dont operate like this. Its an asinine way to sustain a political movement that keeps us constantly on the back foot in terms of messaging. You NEED to tell people what youre trying to do and campaign for those things for years then use every lever and every tactic to get as much done as possible. Then blame and attack the other guys for getting in the way which is then clearly true for all to see. If youre constantly reacting to your political landscape instead of creating it you SUCK at politics. This attitude is typical of Democratic consultants advisors and established lawmakers and its ass backwards and killing the partys popularity with voters because no one thinks we have an agenda... which leaves the door open for Republicans to make up their own narrative about what the dems are doing. This is why Gavin Newsome is a dumbass. Dems fail to establish an agenda and a brand kill their own populist wing and what happens? Republicans fill the void with culture war bullshit and fearmongering about everything from trans people in sports to nonexistent crime waves to demonizing student protestors. Whats the worst possible way to respond to this? Well that would be to let the far right CONTINUE to dominate the conversation by only engaging with their issues and on their terms. Thats what the idiots at the DNC and Newsome are trying to do. They fail to build their own narratives or bring up their own issues and instead start pandering to the right wing side of the wedge. These are wedge issues. They are politically engineered to split your opposition off from the majority position of the general public and start a fight that they know they can win.... because they chose the battlefield strategically. Thats why the media narrative talks about trans sports and chips away at rights and basic decency for marginalized folks instead of attacking them directly in wats theres less support for. Pandering to majority opinion DOES NOT WORK as a response to this. Its bait. If you do that you only fuel the perception that its a big deal and validate the wedge attack on your own faction. You are never going to BEAT the right at being a dick to trans people or immigrants. If you play their game you lose. Thats THEIR game and their rules. You have to do the hard work of actually building your own agenda and promoting it preferably demonizing all the evil things the other guys are doing in the process. Tax the rich fuck abusive landlords and private equity price gouging end wasteful and destructive private health insurance by letting everyone use Medicare build some decent fucking infrastructure again off the revenue of taxing greedy fucks in banking and everything else the average Joe can get worked up to support. This is why you need people like Bernie Sanders or AOC leading the party not because they will instantly achieve all of their goals but because the party dies without having a strong public campaign to accomplish them. So are you saying we may as well have had Clinton and Biden anyways? Bad argument Okay. Heres the thing For Sanders to have been elected it would likely mean that the political landscape as a whole would need to have shifted. Your argument for it to stand pretty much wholly requires that literally every single variable thats been in place during both 2016 and 2020 would remain the same. The only difference would have been Sanders which is at its core the issue in the reasoning youre trying to propose. Sanders is far more progressive than any other potential presidential candidate that we have had. While Obama was very good at being highly charismatic he was still extremely moderate and therefore did not really require anything to ultimately change in how the system works at large. His election was more of a social victory for progress because hes Black but not an actual *political* progress because many of his policies ultimately didnt push for nor require the system to move further to the left than the Democratic party finds comfortable. The issue with Sanders and why he keeps bumping up against walls is because he would represent actual *political* progress i.e. the system as *a whole* would need to shift more to the left and THAT in and of itself is difficult and ultimately why he hasnt been able to enact any of his larger policies. Because of that Id argue that in the alternate reality where Sanders is elected a lot of his policies *would* be possible because we likely would have seen a more progressive/leftleaning shift on a whole in terms of how every other branch of government is stacked allowing him to at the absolutely very least be able to make *some* of his promises possible like M4A. Hes not just a perceived threat to Republicans/The Right hes also a threat to the Democrats because they arent actually that progressive and a lot of their strength as they perceive it comes from playing it safe by remaining in the middle ground and thats it. At the end of the day Sanders being elected is more reflective of an idealized step forward politically which is hard to see manifest in reality because of just how many things he has to fight against to make that happen. But its that very same reality that were in that would never allow him to be elected so his ability *to* be elected would heavily imply that many variables as we know it would have shifted in his favor for that to be possible to begin with. Indeed all corporations would proffer poison about him incessantly on the daily. They would rather not pay more increase union membership or anything else. Both parties would block him at every opportunity as they are paid to do. Theyd prefer it if we just continue to argue about LGBT abortion and other nonissues that shouldnt even be up for debate. That doesnt cost them any money you see. If Bernie won in 2016 versus Hillary he would have fucking destroyed Trump. Every heads up poll in 2016 had Bernie up by 20 points against Trump. He would have also flipped the senate and the house to a point where he would have had a mandate to do a lot of the concepts he had envisioned. If Bernie won in 2020 the prevailing headwinds of COVID would have been too much for any president to overcome. Inflation was a global phenomenon. Youre not quite right on why. Sanders only saboteurs were the Democrats. He made that very clear during a recent interview. Hed rather bend the knee to the Democratic elite rather than sacrifice himself for the people. Lets look at some policies that are popular and the percentage theyre supported by * **Raise the federal minimum wage e.g. to $15 indexed to inflation** – \~65–75% support. * **Universal paid family and medical leave** – Supported by over 70%. * **Break up monopolies / enforce antitrust laws** – Over 65–75% support. * **Reform student loan system and allow refinancing at low rates** – 60–70%. * **Child tax credit / expansion of earned income tax credit EITC** – Broad bipartisan support. * **Allow Medicare to negotiate drug prices** – 85–90% approval. * **Cap insulin prices and prescription drug costs** – \~80% support. * **Public option for health insurance Medicare BuyIn** – \~65–70% support. * **Legal marijuana regulated like alcohol** – 65–70%. * **Right to contraception access** – Over 90%. * **Protect samesex marriage rights** – \~70%. * **Immigration reform with DACA protections and border security** – \~65–70% when bundled together. So realistically Bernie had the highest intersection of popular policies with voters. All republican stonewalling can be avoided by declaring them enemies of the people and removing them from power. Call the base into the streets to enforce the removal of fascists across the country from the corrupt sheriff in a small town to the traitors in congress. America is ready for Maoist intervention it will be incredibly popular once the public starts to see untouchable oligarchs chained up and stripped of the wealth they’ve stolen. Trump’s entire shtick is only possible because people want justice and he promised it to them…which was obviously a lie because he’s one of those fascist oligarchs himself but the point is that the lie he needed to tell to be popular is the very thing that socialists want to fulfill. I don’t understand anyone who thinks Sanders would come anywhere near 270. Donald fucking Trump got more votes than any candidate in US history second only to his opponent in 2020 and that was after his incompetence and apathy in managing a pandemic led to the death of hundreds of thousands and total economic collapse. If you think a far left candidate is coming anywhere near Trump you’re a fucking idiot with zero political acumen. Sanders in no reality can become US President. He’s unelectable. The population of this country and the way our system is structured to select a president will never allow it. It’s as fantastical as flat earth theory. It’s total fiction Maybe he would. And thats not his problem to be honest. A politicians job except for in some countries is not to be popular but to do a good job for the mayority of the people at least the voters. This is something an educated population will be able to extrapolate. this politician did good this other politician did not so lets go with the better one. I think you are right if he won in 2020 because Trump spent four years shitting on progressivism and locking in his base who might’ve largely been apolitical or republicans who would’ve preferred to vote for Rubio or Cruz or someone else. Joe Biden was very centrist and was still slandered as a communist by that locked in base. In 2016 I’m not so sure coming right after Obama he might’ve been better received by the general public even if a lot of his stuff failed to pass. Ultimately none of it matters because Biden should’ve been the nominee in 2016 and we would not be close to where we are now. Sanders would not have struggled physically or mentally as much as Biden did. He recovered from his heart attack pretty well. Biden sounded terrible even when he was running in 2019. I agree that his ability to get legislation through would be severely hampered but his main obstacle would be the Democrats. They’ve been kneecapping their own left flank ever since they kicked Henry Wallace off FDR’s ticket in 1944 and that instinct would go into overdrive with President Sanders. Now you could overcome Congressional hurdles by using the bully pulpit inherent to being President not to mention a rabid fanbase which spans large swaths the country if that 2020 donation map is anything to go off of to intimidate reluctant Congressman to support your legislation lest they get primaried. But Bernie simply did not have that instinct in him. The same weakness that haunted him during both of his campaigns would continue to haunt him in the Oval Office. The idea is to pick someone with enough momentum that the other party doesnt have a majority in either house. If Sanders had the senate and house Republicans wouldnt be able to stone wall him on everything. He would get 3 supreme court justice picks and the courts would have a very different makeup than they do now. even if he gets nothing done that alone would be orders of magnitude better than what happened He would have been unpopular because he would have capitulated to centrist Dems whod be doing some capitulation of their own. The guy wants his colleagues to like him more than he wants to take on any issues. You see it with him being a Biden deadender. You see it with the mealymouthedness on us supplying an ethnic cleansing. You even saw it during the campaign where railed against The Evils® but stopped short of naming names and pointing fingers. The guy craves the approval of his work buds more than he does change. In the end righties and centrists would have continued to detest him AND his support from the left would have eroded due to him pivoting center. Kinda like now sanders would have ultimately been blocked at every moment or would have had to make concessions to capitalism at key junctures. lenin talks about this in state and revolution the state is an instrument used by capitalists to buffer themselves from the working class. his presidency would have been a failure. Anyone more center than these past candidates would have been great. Instead we get retard oompa loompa DEI identity politics bitch who I actually voted for strictly because of abortion policy a literal fucking dementia patient and a widely hated rich lady elbowing her way into the candidacy. If he had won in 2016 then Trump would have lost and never been seen as politically viable. Obviously impossible to tell if that would have given way to something worse but I can’t help but think that American politics would be in a better place had Trump never been elected. America needs like 5 more Bernie Sanders type people. Not people with the same values or agendas but people who have a distinctly different set of ideals than the major parties. If people could choose more than just Red or Blue America might be able to complete its rainbow. If this was a designated survivor situation and since he was an independent he was at some campaign event… maybe it could work maybe you could fill that void with enough socialists in a quick 8 week the SuperPacs couldn’t find and buy representatives fast enough I think in 2016 I agree because congress was very republican at that point. But by 2020 thanks to the 2018 midterms the Democrats had gained power in the house and across the country. I think he wouldve been able to get more of his agenda passed at that point He would have either been like FDR and been a transformative president who was beloved forever afterward or he would have been like Kennedy where he was loved but controversy led to someone deciding that he had to go leaving the country to wonder What if... He’d be easy to pillory from the right absolutely. Unfortunately for conservative America socialist policies that actually work are historically very attractive people often point to new deal democrats” holding the congress for 40 years straight. If Americans wanted progressive policies they would vote for a progressive government at every level From school board to president. Bernie would not have gotten anything done because he would have been too progressive in a country that is center right. Mods why do you allow dogshit like this that’s clearly just trying to push the OP’s agenda? It’s like arguing with a brick wall in the comments and his entire post history is just shit like /r/neoliberal gross Like my god one look at his profile and he’s an 1819 year old catholic with a fucking Michael Bloomberg PFP this subreddit continuously falls in quality man. Biden was already demented in 2020. We would be in a much better place today. How are we supposed to change your view on a hypothetical situation? Oh wait I just visited an alternate universe where Bernie won. He won 320 electoral votes in 2016 and 500 in 2024. So... Just like Trump has essentially stacked these various parts of the government to favor him Bernie likely would have done the same thing Generally speaking whoever is President typically uses the powers they have to essentially replace anyone in the government they legally can with someone who agrees with them Yes but only because most Americans are conservative as fuck. Even democrats are conservative compared to the rest of the world. On the subject of his health you bring up Sanders having a heart attack a myocardial infarction or MI. As a nurse with ICU and cardiac rehab experience caring for patients with MIs is not what the public thinks it is. Yes it can be deadly if left untreated but generally with a timely response it is a quick trip to the cath lab and a one night stay on a telemetry floor. They are discharged the next day and typically these patients never even see the ICU. They follow up with a routine cardiology appointment for further management of course but that’s pretty much it. Aside from that Biden’s physical health was never really what worried me. He’s pretty on par physically for a man his age but his cognitive health was in horrible decline and for the whole world to see. It seemed like it was very much a struggle for him to string together sentences that were coherent and on topic. Cognitively I wouldn’t trust him to manage a McDonald’s let alone an entire country. Sanders on the other hand appeared on Theo Vonn’s podcast on Aug 13 2024 this is the last time I think he’s appeared in a long form interview and you can very easily tell by just listening to him that he is still very much sharp and cognitively intact at 83 years old. Listening to it then and listening to parts of it again it is very clear he has a massive leg up on Biden cognitively at their ages. I don’t think he would have been unpopular at all but he would never have won an election to begin with. I mean if Trump has proved anything it’s that you can be wildly unpopular and still make things happen… [removed] I rather he be unpopular than drag the country into the shit mess we are now. I dont think extremely unpopular but hed be like HW or Carter. Claiming that men should be providers is as sexist as claiming that women belong in the kitchen Author AresThePacifist_Post Text In my view the belief that men should be providers who protect women is incredibly sexists and it is as detestable as someone claiming the role of women is to be caretakers who cook and clean. People who who hold these beliefs are forcing behaviors onto men without their consent while shaming those who fail to act out the role. Especially those selfproclaimed alpha males who make claims that the natural role of a man is to provide recourse for a woman so that she can fulfill her natural role of babymaker and caretaker is not only harmful to women but also cruel towards men since it creates norms that restrict everyones behaviors. 1. Generally people who push traditional gender roles for one gender push them for both. I doubt you’re seeing too many people who say BOTH of these things you might just be seeing people say one or the other and conflating them based on demographics. 2. Saying that men should provide something in a relationship doesnt necessitate that they be the SOLE provider. It’s possible in the context people are saying this in that they’re just expressing that they want their partner to have *some* form of employment or income to equally contribute to the house. 3. I believe that regardless of the above points expecting men to be providers which is not something I agree with btw is STILL less sexist than saying women belong in the kitchen because a provider” is an incharge / leadership” position and a cook/housemaid/etc is a subservient position. Neither is good and both are sexist but one is very much so more degrading than the other. I mean which expectation would *you* rather have? **ETA—** Did NOT expect for OPs post to blow up like this did not expect that many responses. I wrote this comment entirely on a whim on mobile while halfasleep so some of my reasoning wasnt properly fleshed out apologies! Dont feel like responding to every single one so Im just gonna cover some of the common responses and elaborate on my intentions. * Apparently there are more people than I thought who are hypocrites. My bad. Generally I dont see too many people who claim from the jump that they have weird views on whether or not gender roles should be followed I do see plenty of men expecting cooking/cleaning and 50/50 finances but thats not often *stated* and moreso behavioral but that might just be the spaces I personally spend my time in. * WRT my phrasing of point three the true difference isnt really in the emotional *experience* of it its in the **independence.** If we follow all gender roles to their ultimate conclusion a SAHM has absolutely *zero* ability to financially leave her husband. She hasnt worked in a number of years doesnt have the job experience she should for her age is the primary caretaker of children which is hugely expensive moneywise and timewise etcetera. Her husband though *can pack up and leave at any time he wants.* This power dynamic *will* inherently shape the relationship whether they intend it to or not one of them has much more of a stake in the relationship continuing than the other. * No I dont think alimony or child support is enough to make up for this especially because you wont be getting any of that until youre able to hire a lawyer which is expensive and until legal proceedings conclude which takes a lot of time. This is discouraging enough to prevent many unhappy women from divorcing. * If women ever control the purchasing power / household management yadda yadda in relationships that follow strict gender roles this is entirely based on soft power or may even be a result of men being checked out of those tasks those tasks *which are work* btw. See my previous point — she has zero *actual recourse* if her husband decides on something she doesnt like. * When youre at work you have workers rights and sometimes the option for union membership/representation. As a housewife you are entirely subject to the whims of your husband and his mood as to whether you are doing a good job essentially placing you in a sort of boss/employee dynamic despite the fact that you are in a romantic relationship. You have no guaranteed hours no inherently guaranteed pay etc. I cant figure out the right keywords to track down the literature but one of my supervisors explained to me last year that burnout is much higher in people who live where they work eg RAs camp counselors because theres a lack of separation between their on time and their off time at home. She can never *truly* relax. * I dont think service jobs are inherently degrading. I personally choose to work those jobs myself. I just take issue with service jobs in romantic relationships because I think it creates an uncomfortable hierarchical dynamic. The end those are my opinions unless I can think of more. I think an important point you are overlooking is the history of gender issues that lead to sentiments like this. Women belong in the kitchen” is a statement that carries the weight of historically women not being allowed to work many high paying jobs women not being allowed to have credit cards being a stay at home mom not just being a social norm but a relatively strict social restriction on top of all the other historic discriminations women have faced. Men should be breadwinner” is essentially proof of a historic power dynamic that was largely established by men over most of history. It’s hard to call both statements equally sexist when one is rooted in historic discriminations and the other is a role that was established in social power was far more valued and only recently spoken out against. In my view the belief that men should be providers who protect women is incredibly sexists By definition it is sexist. There is no argument or view or anything here this cant be changed. Is your view to be challenged that some who? think that its not sexist or that sexism is not detestable? Or that sexism against men is overlooked? Care to elaborate? Start with carrying a baby for 9 months and then painfully giving birth to the baby destroying the body in the woman contribution column. What does the man put in to equalize that contribution in his column? Children take a lot of time pain and effort to raise. If the man doesnt provide then what is his role in setting up the family for success? Does he just drop off the sperm and boom all parties are equally participating in the family arrangment? In a world where a family can survive on one income men belong in the workplace” and women belong in the kitchen” are two sides of the same coin. And thus are equally sexist in line with your premise. For singleincome households one party works for formal pay by definition and the other members receive indirect economic benefit either in return for their household labour or because they are supported dependents e.g. young children disability etc. Conservatives want to conserve traditional values and will say that it is right and proper that men should be have that breadwinner role because tradition or because religion or because evolutionary psychology protect the breeding stock. You mentioned Manosphere spaces from what I’ve seen they seem to have a fair share of the evopsych type of gender essentialism our ancestors were hunters etc.. It should be socially acceptable to have a working mum and a stayhome dad but that is uncommon in our society. And what of samesex couples? The reality where I live is that you need two incomes. Then it becomes a question of how equitably the roles are split. If one partner works fewer hours should they contribute more at home? If they work similar hours but make more money does that count for more? Men must be the provider” has gradations. From soleincome through working more hours to working similar hours but expected to bring in more money to providing the money _and_ the housework. There are still cultural expectations. Perhaps the man isn’t the sole income but he is still expected to earn more. Women are still expected on average to contribute more at home. Are they both sexist? Yes so I’m still not changing your view. There is this idea that going out to work has a kind of freedom and selfactualisation that home work does not. But stayhome dads often report that it is hard rewarding and different from paid work but not necessarily easier or harder. The online femosphere denizens who say I don’t need to bring anything to the table I am the table” want to be all take and no give. They want to have a hobby job as an influencer whilst highvalue men” treat them like princesses and bring in the proper money. Online it feels like all most women are like that” but the reality is that it’s a vocal group of boss bitch”/slay queen” types It’s hard to change your view when a I generally agree with you b there are so many other variables in relationships and c we see so much confounding rhetoric. The area where I think expectations on women are more onerous is the supermum” stereotype where women are told that they can and should juggle career motherhood and mistress of the household. On the plus side there is more choice career women are no longer vilified men’s roles are more constrained. But the imperative in some circles for women to do it all” is no good if men are getting a free pass. The attitude that women should go to to work and still belong in the kitchen when they get home it’s not universal but does have some traction. Conversely there is this idea that female hypergamy” requires 6 figures 6 feet 6 inches” and places oldfashioned requirements for male suitors to meet traditional expectations whilst freeing women from their traditional constraints. In that sense men should be providers” is maybe not more sexist but more _persistently_ sexist. Woman belongs in the kitchen” is no longer widely supported but man should be the provider” still is. In this sense men’s liberation is lagging behind women’s. So take your pick perhaps one is more sexist” than the other or vice versa. Of course not all relationships are fair. They can range from partners trying their best to fullon abusive manipulation. And neither men nor women have a monopoly on that. [removed] In a world where all men are providers and all women are homemakers that means men control ALL the resources have all the freedom etc and women stay at the houses they own and keep them clean and stuff and hope that men continue to provide them with a means to survive. The two positions are both sexist and sexism hurts everybody. But they are wildly different in terms of outcomes and I think we have to consider that fact. In the world these ideas came from women were slaves they had a legal status comparable to children and men controlled the world. Is going back to that world equally bad for both parties? Now the crushing weight/pressure men suffer from under the patriarchal framework isnt good for them either. Sexism is bad for everyone. But it is patriarchal BOTH ideas are patriarchal and they do not hurt men and women *equally*. How would you define just as sexist? I agree as far as theyre both discriminatory and wrong and that both can have shitty consequences for both. Id however argue that belong in the kitchen has an inherent component that the other lacks in terms of consequences. A person not working will lose independency/become dependent on others and have a worse financial and career situation thar will follow them for the rest of their lives even if they escape their situation later. They are also more likely become trapped in a shitty relationship. Thats not to say that expected to be a provider will always be better for the individual e.g for one individual the provider expectation might result in suicide while another individual is happily a stay at home mom. To summarize both can have serious psychological consequences both are wrong but belong in the kitchen has the additional financial component and can as such be argued to be more sexist. Edit One is also an expectation to be competent while the other is often telling the other person is incompetent. Id personally generally prefer the former. [removed] I think it depends on the kind of man making the claims tbh. A lot of the men who think a womans place is at home cooking cleaning and raising children are the same men who dont have the means to provide for this lifestyle. If you want a stay at home wife/mother then you definitely should be a provider. Too many guys want submissive providers. Women who do all the traditional stuff while also working full time. IMHO a modern man who wants an equal relationship begets a modern woman who will be as much a provider as he is. A traditional man who can provide for a family will beget a traditional woman who wants to make that family with him. But a modern man wanting a traditional woman is just laughable as is the vice versa scenario. [removed] What would change your view on this? You’re not wrong that it’s sexist but framing them as equally sexist misses something. The men must provide” thing screws men yeah traps them in this grindordie model where their worth is tied to money or status but it also props up the system that tells women they can’t or shouldn’t provide for themselves. That’s the part people miss. These roles are linked but they don’t land equally. One puts pressure on you the other takes power from someone else. That doesn’t make your frustration invalid it just means they operate on different levels. You don’t have to rank oppression like it’s a competition but ignoring that imbalance weakens your case. The role hurts you because it helps keep her stuck in hers. That’s why it matters. I think most people who claim one also claim the other. That being said the data is pretty clear about who carries the majority of household labor even in cases where both partners work equal amounts. I can understand why women would be frustrated about doing the majority of chores while financially contributing the same amount as their partner and I could see why some women would come away from that expecting a man to be a provider it may be easier to convince a man to earn more money for a household than it would be to convince him to consistently contribute to chores. Ive been in a relationship where I was the primary provider and my bf still didnt contribute very much to chores. He overinflated anything he did do and got angry if I pointed out he didnt do something he was supposed to i.e. I cant believe youd get on my case about not washing the dishes while you were at work when I cleared and wiped the table and you shouldve been proud of me for that. Convincing a guy who doesnt want to do chores to do chores is an endless battle that needs won over and over and over again. Convincing a guy to seek a promotion/find a new job is a battle that presumably only needs to be won one time. Im currently in a happy relationship. When we started living together my fiance earned a lot less than me. Later on we were earning the same amount. And when I quit one of my jobs due to health concerns there was a period he was earning slightly more. Because I want an equal relationship household roles have shifted somewhat as income and work hours change. Because I work relatively few hours a week and get paid a higher rate I have more time at home. So since I quit my second job Ive been doing stuff like preparing his lunches for work and doing a larger share of cleaning. When he wasnt earning/working a ton he did more cleaning. Weve talked about how a stretch goal is for my fiance to be able to cut hours at work from 40 to like 30 even if that means I work a little bit more though Im trying to get health stuff in order first and Ive taken steps toward a new side hustle that Im hoping Ill be able to develop into an income stream. It helps that gender isnt a factor — while my ex talked a lot about roles of men and women and their differences my fiance doesnt particularly care. Hes trans and I dont really *get* gender roles so those expectations arent a part of the relationship. The point is relationships dont have a specific way they need to be. But striving for equity is important. I cant understand being in a relationship and *wanting* to offload your burdens onto your partner. This is a person you love why would you want to create an arrangement that places undue labor and stress onto them? But unfortunately that type of arrangement is alltoo common in straight couples. Claiming that men should be providers is as sexist as claiming that women belong in the kitchen providers who protect women Which is it? Providing and protecting arent the same thing. If someone doesnt think women belong in the kitchen by definition they dont think men should be the *sole* providers. The two are mutually exclusive and you are preaching to the choir. If youre only talking about protcting women protect from what? From who? If were talking fight for improved womens rights to protect them from abuses exploitation then yes I think thats a moral pursuit. Protect abortion rights? Protect from sexual harassment? Protect from domestic violence? These are all things everyone can work towards including men. If youre physically able or even if youre not attempting to protect a woman from say an attacker on the street is also the morally correct thing to do. Thats not to be paternalistic and say women cant also protect other women or themselves but it sure helps if other men arent bystanders. Should we force men to help in situations like that? Well thats debatable. Do I think men *should* help in situations like that? Yes I do but I think all of society should. We should look after each other. If Im barking up the wrong tree then you need to be more specific about what you mean because you have been quite vague. [removed] I see where you’re coming from and I agree that rigid gender roles can be harmful but I think there’s some nuance to the men should be providers” idea that’s worth unpacking. Personally I don’t think saying men should be providers” is automatically as sexist or limiting as saying women belong in the kitchen.” The latter reduces a woman’s identity to domestic labour and strips her of choice. It’s rooted in subjugation. But the idea of a man being a provider at least in the way many people mean it today can also represent things like emotional steadiness protection reliability and building a strong foundation for a relationship or family. It doesn’t have to be just about money. That said I 100% agree that it becomes a problem when people start expecting men to fit that role *by default* or when men who don’t want that life are shamed for it. Just like women shouldn’t be boxed into homemaking men shouldn’t be boxed into breadwinning. Real respect comes from giving people the freedom to choose their role in life and love not assigning them one based on gender. Speaking personally I see relationships as a partnership where both people bring different forms of support. Before children I think the focus should be on building that stability together growing emotionally financially and mentally as a team. When it comes to starting a family I can imagine my own priorities shifting. If I were to carry and raise children I’d want the option to step back from work and be present with them *not* because I have to but because I’d *choose* to. And in that phase I’d deeply value having a partner who could provide more of the financial support if needed. That doesn’t make either person less than.” It just means playing to your strengths at different stages of life in a way that works for *both* of you. So maybe the healthier conversation is less about tearing down the roles themselves and more about defending everyone’s right to choose the path that fits them whether that’s a man who wants to provide a woman who wants to lead in her career or any mix of the two. I think what you’re hitting on OP is that both of these are the result of toxic patriarchal beliefs. So claiming the men should be providers is not as sexist” as others have already made the case for but it is something that stems from the same root cause as women belong in the kitchen” and it still sexist. Throughout 2nd wave feminism there are a lot of writers that talk about how patriarchy hurts both genders and I’d argue this expectation along with the expectation that men be stoic and unfeeling are all part of that. I have no idea how prevalent feminism currently is but I am a feminist and am the breadwinner and have no expectation that my husband SHOULD be the breadwinner. I think we both need to work. I think whoever can make more does it and we share the other household loads as much as we can. I know this kind of rhetoric is prevalent in some of the man o sphere spaces online right now. I invite men who dislike the expectation of bread winning to challenge the idea of it as natural” within themselves and ask how that belief helps uphold current systems of control. I don’t think there should be any judgement about how individual couples choose to live their own lives and divide up duties as long as it’s sustainable and productive to society. After that everything about your relationship dynamic is up to you. That said there are some biological and societal truths that are hard to get around. Men don’t have to deal with the reality of trying to work or taking significant amounts of time off in every country other than the US during 3rd trimester or balancing work with breastfeeding and pumping after baby is born. On the societal side having a baby is EXPENSIVE. When you have one career that is at best stagnant at worst threatened it really lights a fire under the ass of the other partner to ease the financial burden. Workers who are hungry to succeed are more likely to advance in their careers. Have a few kids and it can really amplify the disparity in career development. Often it just makes more sense to prioritize an established career that makes multiple times more money over having to reenter the workforce at a lower salary and at the stage of having to hustle to prove yourself. There are probably a lot of other factors in career development and family roles that do have a sexist or at least gendered component like how much we encourage ambition risktaking nurturing behaviors etc You can certainly choose to do things differently. Many people aren’t going to follow the above as their life path and that’s fine if it works for your situation. A lot of people will though because it’s often the path of least resistance and having kids is hard enough on its own. Nobody is forcing you to be a provider but the drive to step up and take care of your family is mostly not about sexist expectations it’s about being a good partner. Saying that men should be providers is just as sexist as saying women belong in the kitchen. At the end of the day both of those ideas come from the same outdated system that boxed people into rigid gender roles. These roles might look different but they’re rooted in the same patriarchal structureone that for a long time gave men most of the power and told everyone how they were supposed to live based on gender. On the surface being the provider” might sound like a compliment for menit can even feel empowering. But in reality it’s just another narrjow expectation that limits who they can be just like assuming women should stay home and take care of everything. in many places women have gained more rights and opportunities though there’s still a long way to go. Meanwhile a lot of men are now feeling stuck in the very system their ancestors helped create. They’re still expected to provide hide their emotions avoid vulnerability and measure their worth through money or status. That’s not freedomit’s just another kind of trap. But we can’t pretenhd men are just victims now. While they didn’t create these roles many still reinforce themsometimes without even realizing it. We also can’t ignore how these stereotypes feed off each other. If men are supposed to provide then women are expected to depend. These ideas aren’t separatethey prop each other up. Real progress means leting go of both sides of that equation. So yeah saying men should be providers is sexist. Maybe it doesn’t carry the same historical weight or systemic harm women have faced but it’s still a genderbased limitation. And real freedom? That’s about people being able to choose their own pathwithout pressure guilt or outdated expectations getting in the way. The only way I could see this coming up where you would not be correct is if its a situation where men are talking about wanting a babymaker/caretaker wife and the reaction they get is to be told that they need to be good providers if thats what they want in a partner. In most conversations and contexts youre totally right and all gendered expectations that push someone into a specific role are sexist bullshit. In the very narrow category of one party saying that they want a romantic partner who is fulfilling that very gendered role its not equally bad to tell them that they have to live up to their side of the equation first. For two reasons one its a rhetorical device to point out that someone doesnt actually want what they say they want by pointing out the downsides akin to telling a child that they can of course buy as much McDonalds as they want as soon as they have their own money. Two there are in fact people of both genders who prefer traditional roles and if a man actually wants a 1950s housewife type or if a woman actually wants a big tough guy that does all the financial providing then those people need to be prepared to live up to their side of those expectations. Pointing that out isnt sexist even if the actual underlying social structure is sexist as hell. Maybe this is a bad take its fine to disagree with me but gender roles on their own arent a bad thing. If theyre used to try to limit a persons freedom then thats bad. If theyre used to ridicule a relationship where the traditional roles are reversed then thats bad. But saying that a man should provide is absolutely fine like yeah you should want to provide for your family or at the very least for yourself. I personally find it encouraging and Id never use it as an excuse to prevent my wife from achieving her own goals. And maybe this is just me but I feel that the thing many of us long for most nowadays is a happy quiet life. Im not interested in tearing down the structures around us because I dont have faith well build something better in their place. I want to focus on small measurable goals not impossibly broad and academic discussions. If we have a belief system that encourages people to earn money and provide for their loved ones thats a good thing in my books. Belonging in the kitchen is way more specific than being a provider so you could make the argument that it’s more sexist because it’s more restrictive. From some of your follow up responses I know this won’t change your mind but just a different perspective neither are sexist if it works for the couple both are just as sexist if made requirements of one party. Earlier someone said it’s more sexist for women to be caretakers because they have less power and I just flat out disagree bc men aren’t all bad some women want to be caretakers and in healthy relationships nothing takes the respect or power away from either party. Nothing. My husband and I are interested in having kids and discuss me staying at home sometimes. I’m not sure yet which way we land but I know for damn sure that power” won’t diminish either way. We love each other and our choices are made for each other and the life we want to build together not for ourselves alone. [removed] If a woman wants to have children she absolutely needs to pick a man who can in a pinch provide for most if not all of the household’s basic needs. Pregnancy can be completely debilitating and our country has no safety nets. My own mother was in a car accident at 4 months pregnant and was put on partial bed rest for the rest of her pregnancy. That’s 5 months without wages plus another 23 for recovering after the birth. They cut expenses to the bone and my dad was luckily able to pick up the slack. This situation is not uncommon it’s happened to multiple women that I know. A woman saying she needs to find a man who can provide in that situation is just acknowledging the practical reality that men aren’t the ones who get debilitated from pregnancy. Absolutely. If you think about it one leads to the other. Abolishing gender roles not only benefits women. Depends. Many men are happy and even make it their lifes mission to provide for their family. I grew up around a community where many of the women didnt work and all of the men provided for them. The men were very happy to work hard and provide their their families. Many women were happy to stay home and make the house a home and raise the children. In fact they had such a strong community that women would go out for picnics with eachother and even cooked together. Many of the men were working together and were very happy to work long hours to ensure their women and children could live happily and comfortably. Many men would feel unfulfilled if they werent providing for their family. Much more than the amount of women that would feel unfulfilled. Literally 100% of the feminists I know are hypocrites. Caveat is all the ones I know are in there 20s or 30s but I think a lot of society has the same views. According to those people and most of society they say they want equality. But in reality they want equality when it benefits women but still expect men to hold certain gender roles. So for example they still want men to pay for the 1st dates pay for the majority of dates and pay for the majority of the bills in a relationship versus equality would be 50/50. If a wife is a stay at home mom and the dad is working 80+ hours weeks they still expect the man to do half the chores and childcare. They expect the man to be the protector and sacrifice himself for his girlfriend/wife. Etc It depends entirely on your perspective and your life situation. If you are a single guy and you just want to go your own way I see nothing wrong with that. But if you choose to bring children into the world you had damn well be prepared to feed and care for them. Once you make the conscious decision to start a family you should be the figurehead of that family and lead everyone forward. Now with that being said I do not expect my spouse to be some barefoot and in the kitchen” type. In fact I kind of hate that. I want a strong independent woman who is an equal. Which means we share responsibilities equally as well. I already know how to cook and do my own laundry It’s not a view as much as it was the biologically smart thing to do for most of humanity. Only recently where our society and needs have changed to be incredibly different from what they were 100 years ago. Now a days society has made it so that anyone can succeed and be independent so the normal roles people had to fill to survive before no longer exist. It’s just statistically the objective truth that a mom that is active in raising their kids which often times requires the man to make all of the income to allow the mom to spend as much time and effort as they do raising a child along with a caring and responsible father is the healthiest way to raise a child. Its just biology when women get pregnant their bodies go through radical changes that many times need someone to help care for them. They arent able to continue to work and intense schedule with high stress in late pregnancy. It doesnt mean men are destined to work themselves to death but guys should take extra care both physically and take a greater load of work when their wives are farther in pregnancy. Many women also discover while pregnant that they really want to spend more time with their baby after they are born. This often will necessitate that the other partner takes the greater work load. Affluent couples will often hire a nanny or Au Paire but most families just cant afford that kind of luxury. Full disclosure my house is a single income home I have worked an intense work schedule for the past 19 years usually 12+ hour shifts 5 x weekly to support my family and it is exhausting and challenging. In fact this very idea is hurting men in gen z disproportionately as gen z women are on average getting higher education levels than gen z men and thus make more money than gen z men on average. However there is an additional problem. Men are being raised to be providers and on average offer less around the house and as parents. I dont blame men for this this is how they were raised. However now that women dont need men to provide in gen z as much theyre expecting a greater emotional commitment that men arent used to and its one of the many reasons for the loneliness epidemic. When women get pregnant they cant work for an extended period of time whether that be 2 weeks or a few months. Their lifetime earning potential goes down. Theyre risking their life to have a child. Not to mention the extremely high cost of medical bills. Even when women make more than their husbands they still do more housework. Married women do more housework than single moms. Some would say having a man as the primary provider serves as a back up plan to out source domestic labor a man refuses to do or be compensated for having children and diminishing your career. Men and women are socially directed into these roles. They are more likely to be better at those jobs than their heterosexual counterparts at least if you look strictly at outcomes. But to appease the living pathogens who think I’m advocating for this division the only reason this exists is because parents keep pushing their kids into these roles. If we stopped treating women in the workplace like trophies and men with children like red flags maybe we’d have more egalitarian relationship divisions. I do somewhat agree but these expectations don’t hold the same weight. I relate on a personal level because I’m a man who grew up to stay childless and I’ll never be a provider for a family. It did disappoint my dad and some of the family that I don’t want the traditional American dream and just want to live to provide for myself and my partner but that pressure didn’t extend beyond that. Society in general is a lot more accepting of a childless man than a childless woman. Sexism implies some kind of disadvantage with respect to whatever the norm or expectation is. But being able to provide for my girlfriend has been nothing but beneficial to my relationship. I like holding myself to that standard and it’s helped me make healthier choices in my life as a result because now I have both of our welfare to consider. I’m not gonna force anyone to act the way I act but if anyone asks what makes our relationship work this is a big part of it. Being a provider is not a degrading term. Being told you belong to the kitchen is. Its biological. Babies take yrs to raise and both baby and mother are vulnerable at that time. Its a survival thing to have a protector and provider when a women must tend a kid and a kid needs so long to develop. Other animals can walk and run soon after birth. Theyve much shorter periods of becoming capable of tending themselves. This isnt some sexist construct but an effective method of survival for our species. I agree. I want to live however I want but society expect me to conform to the notion of being a man” that they decided. Both alpha male and divine feminine women have shamed me for not wanting to be in the traditional role of a man. They say I’m not manly. Ok then I’m not manly. I only need to be happy not manly. These people are not going of make me happy. So why should I listen to them. Within limits. Women have to take between 36 months off of work to take care of a child for those first few months. Men are just not biologically capable of producing milk and thus arent a natural replacement for taking care of children. We were very fortunate we could both afford to take time off. But if we couldnt it would have been me providing for those first six months minimum. It is sexist. It made sense when women couldnt work or had less opportunities for good pay. But these days young women often earn as much or even more than men. The discrepancy in earnings is concentrated among older people. But surveys also show that a lot of women still expect men to earn more than them or be at least equal though it is changing slowly. Men tend to care way less about that stuff though. I dont think its the NATURAL role of a man to provide in our modern society except for the time before and after birth. Once the mother has healed its a question of who will provide childcare. The person who does not needs to provide financially. In a relationship without children the gender of the partners is irrelevant for who provides. OF COURSE 4 WOMEN I HAVE DATED OR I WANTED TO DATE TOLD ME THESE TWO WEEKS MEN SHOULD PROVIDE FOR 100% OF THE HOUSEHOLD NEEDS HER MONEY IS HER MONEY AND HIS MONEY IS HER MONEY TOO IF HE REFUSES IT MEANS HE HAS FEMININE ENERGY AND IS NOT A REAL MAN. I laughed at this and promised to never consider them again as potential partners. Isnt the assertion supposed to be sexist given that we accept the premise that women are supposed to be homemakers/caretakers/raisers of children? Wouldnt it only make sense that the Man is the provider? Its supposed to counter the lack of logic found in asserting that a man is entitled to a patriarchal sense of family. feminists have been saying this for decades The protests in California are exactly what the Trump administration wants and continued escalation plays into the administrations hands and people against this need to slow down and strategize in order to win. In the past several days we have seen large protests in California reacting to federal law enforcement raids carried out in a manner that was deliberately inflammatory. The purpose of this was to draw an angry and disorganized reactionary protest. The TV images of violent actors and leftist incorpting a grab bag of other causes stiffens right wing resolve pushes away people sitting on the fence and gives the administration leeway to crack down harder with some measure of support. In order to stop these aggressive and oppresive federal actions people who are against them must organize tighten up messaging and present themselves in a way that either changes views or at the very least causes people to distance themselves and not actively support these policies. This worked for the civil rights movement in the 50s and 60s. The goal must not be to maintain some form of ideological purity or merely to give voice to grievance. Doing that will only further enable the administration. The faster things escalate the more the administration gets what it wants. Will the Trump administration use the actions in LA to seize more power? Of course. If these protest actions didnt happen would the Trump administration continue to seize more power? Of course. Fascists will use every avenue available to them to increase their hold on the reins of the state. If they dont have a justification they will make one up. The approval given to ICE to start this mass deportation program is based on a lie. Much of this is very new and I⚡️⚡️Es newly expanded powers are just now becoming public knowledge as they ramp up their fascist program. Angelinos and other Americans can take the strategy of sitting back strategizing establishing messaging and organizing a coherent and unified response. Meanwhile Trump and his fascist stooges will have illegally deported hundreds of thousands immigrants and citizens. Developing a longterm strategy is necessary but it doesnt stop the injustices happening today. Trumps strategy is to overwhelm democratic institutions and to rapidfire dozens of new programs of cruelty in order to crush opposition. They want us to spend months strategizing and organizing against them because when we finally create a strategy they will have moved fast beyond it rendering it useless. Thats why the Democrats are so useless right now. They are working on their messaging they are developing strategies and they are useless. You cant sit around and try to organize a national response to fascism because it will always keep you reacting instead of acting. Instead we should be encouraging all denizens of the targeted urban centers to fight back. We must smash as much power as we can now because letting it grow will be that much harder in the future. Americans should see that their fellow Americans are rising up against a tyrannical government they should see that they have agency and the ability to change things and fight against fascism. Without that it is easy to feel helpless and isolated. It is easy to think maybe you are the only one that feels this way and therefore maybe you are overreacting. Fascists will do what they want and find justification for their actions no matter what. The only way to that *right now* is to fight back. It is to show that they dont have the consent of the American people. They dont need protests in L.A. to deploy the National Guard they were already developing plans for it before this week. They have been calling it an invasion since last year and they did it to eventually enact martial law no matter how Americans responded. If Angelinos didnt fight back the fascists would find another way to crackdown on dissent. It is foolish to wait and fight the fascists when they are at their most powerful we must do it now to create barriers to becoming that powerful. ETA The civil rights movement wasnt entirely peaceful. In fact the threat of violence is what contributed to the gains of the movement. If they state didnt allow for MLKs peaceful resistance movement they would have to contend with Malcolm Xs. There is an emphasis on peaceful protest in American history education because they want you to think that is the best path. They want you to comply in advance In order to change your view I’ll ask the following question To what purpose and end does continued escalation serve the Trump administration? I’d like real world answers please. What strategy do you think would be more effective that isnt already being worked on? What do you think is more worthwhile than outright active resistance? No he does not want this because it makes ICE look extremely weak. What Trump/Miller wanted was a show of force to demonstrate their power intimidate their opponents and boost their aura of inevitability and all theyve demonstrated is the exact opposite. 1 people will act according to their culture and beliefs trying to unify all of the unique groups is harder than overthrowing a government. 2 people fighting injustice using a variety of methods will likely see better results than focusing on only one strategy which can more easily be countered. People are being STOLEN off the streets by people in masks with no badges or arrest warrants. What do you suggest we do? Sit back and wait for the Supreme Court to pull their heads out of their ass? This worked for the civil rights movement in the 50s and 60s. You guys should really read more on the civil rights movement because that absolutely didnt work. You dont know history if you think thats how the civil rights movement succeeded. People back then were telling the protesters to just be quiet and recite the rhetoric that youre saying in this post. It took the sacrifices &amp pain of thousands of people to make even the minimum of what we have right now happen. Many many people did things the more sympathetic &amp acceptable way by silently sitting inside whites only restaurants or sitting in front of the bus and they still were brutally beat on had dogs sicced on them jailed &amp more. The majority of civil rights group leaders were assassinated whether they were peaceful or not. Learn about workers rights womens rights and how other countries fought fascist regimes. None of it is perfect &amp nice. To change your view If you were watching these events would you really tell civil rights protesters that theyre just being disruptive? Im sorry what do you expect people to do when a rogue police group invades their city and starts kidnapping hundreds off the streets? This was going to be manufactured regardless of action because the administration is the one in absolute power. Its incredibly difficult to adjust messaging when the media is complicit in condemning some while ignoring others compare this with January 6 for what I mean. You have to understand giving better messaging is not a choice or option it is often a privilege given to those who have control. The only option we have is to condemn this ourselves everyday and to stick together ❤️. Your words will fall on deaf ears. Modern Protests are emotional things basically venting about issues you have no personal control over. In many ways modern Protests that get out of hand tend to hurt rather than help their causes. The LA protests arent doing anything but strengthening the MAGAs in the lead up to the mid term elections. They get to say see thats who the left is throwing rocks and waving foreign flags. The aftermath of this could be losing the opportunity to take back of Congress thus at least blunting the Orange wannabe Kim jung Il as all it will do is encourage the MAGAs to vote even more. And you can convince people they are being stupid which means that in a way we deserve the Orange Dictator.... Reddit is so clearly filled with attempts to sanewash opposition to the protests pretend that the protests are wrong or downplay their effectiveness. Ive never been so sure im looking at propaganda as I am today. Which makes me think that the administration is really scared. plays into the administrations hands and people against this need to slow down and strategize in order to win. The opposite the point of protest is to provoke an outsized response the more violent trump gets the more likely people on the fence change sides. You saw it with BLM. Yes theres a backlash but thats not who youre trying to reach anyway. The more disruption to society the harder it is to do bussiness and the more business leaders and the others who run the country start to demand changes just to keep the peace. A rebellion needs about 2.5% of the population engaged to succeed thats what protests like that seek to do. It’s actually just the left doing what they usually do. Protests and violence. You seem like you’re blaming the administration for doing exactly what it said it would do and ignoring those causing violence because they lost an election like they generally do on that side. Do you believe that four years of shitty governance plus another few bonus years of recovery to be the best course of action? Or is playing into his hands in the interest of accelerationism bringing things to an ugly head ASAP possibly better? Im so ready to tell my parents Told you so when we get legit Martial Law or whatever ugly equivalent. And I think enough of the GOP base isnt on board with stuff like that them included that Congress will have the critical mass for impeachment by then. Most Republicans would have no choice. Getting worse to get better might be the most efficient path here. What does win” mean? Because the administration stated goal is to deport illegal aliens. This is supported by a large majority of the American people Are you seriously advocating for NOT deporting illegals against the wishes of the American people They’re just proving Trump right. If they could stop rioting and stop this insurrection and just be law abiding people no one would care about a peaceful protest. But this isn’t a peaceful protest it’s a riot. They already burned down a lot of the state last year. Don’t need to burn down anymore. This type of thing is why businesses and people are leaving California. It’s become very unsafe. Can’t even go about your day without worrying about people destroying other peoples property or burning everything down. If they could be peaceful the government wouldn’t have to have the national guard step up. If they had competent police officers this would’ve never been escalated beyond a peaceful protest. If you want to destroy the country or burn it down just leave the country it’s that simple. How could people with so much hate for the US stay here when they’ve been given the opportunity to leave on their own by trumps administration. Yep! This is exactly what we wanted you to do. Riot. Destroy your own blue city. Now we can use this as a pretext to come down on you like a hammer federally. also it gives me something to watch on TV So double thank you to the people of LA! Bass and Newsom are telling illegals to escalate protests. Trump has to intervene and send in the military. Thats what happens when politicians go against the law and support the dangerous rioting. Im for immigration just not illegal immigration. Come into our country the right way and be a productive citizen not a destructive one. Take your countrys flags and go back if it was so good there where you came from. I dont understand why its so hard to understand the difference between illegal immigration and legal immigration. Legal you do have rights here. Illegal you dont! Its really simple. Dont bring the mess and behavior from your country and expect to be greeted with open arms here in America. Focus on getting legal citizenship! Then you can have a say. You end up in a catch 22. Either you dont fight it and he goes hey you support me everyone does I will make this harsher. Or you fight it and he gets to use force. This fits with these kinds of people in regular life too no matter your response it will be used for their agenda. I assume your support but if I dont have it I will lash out at you treating your lack of support like a sin. I very much agree that resistance is hard work and hard tactics not simply lashing out. It always is. But apathy is not a solution either. 1 you think trump is smart enough to do 4d chess to bait radical left wing lunatics? he just wants deportation numbers up 2 you provide no accountability to the people taking alleged bait 3 In order to stop these aggressive and oppresive federal actions according to who? like in what way is this illegal? what judge has ruled that trump cant deport? 4 The faster things escalate the more the administration gets what it wants. so then quit lighting things on fire looting businesses and throwing rocks at cops These protests only make illegal immigrants and the left look like animals. This would be labeled the June insurrection if these were Conservatives. Not assign myself a side but vandalism and riots are not a good look felt the same with Jan 6 regardless of causation. If you cant confront these issues with genuine poise and intellect youre hurting your cause. MLK exemplified this 60 years ago he did more in marches and speeches than any riot could ever do IE the reputation of people like Malcom X. Okay they were not arrested yesterday people but criminals. A few Democratic politicians denounced it as arrested illegals not as criminals. Word spread fast in the news called on. It was not the only place to just whats happening is its happening in a lot of places from coast to coast. The differences it was california. California thinks that its better than the rest of the United States and that it should tell the rest of the United States how to live. It should not. The majority of states are tired of illegals and criminals. Right now theyre just rounding up criminals. My opinion is anyone that is caught destroying private property and rioting instead of just protesting. In other words breaking the law should be arrested charged and prosecuted. By the way if they are you know they lose their right to vote. That may make a big difference in california. Because right now its only the major cities that are democratic cities the rest of the countryside and Northern California are predominantly Republicans. Think about it Trump does want to invoke the insurrection act. He is testing what he can hey away with as always. Moving slowly allows him the further consolidation of power which will only make stopping ICE more difficult. This is all putting aside that people protesting arent doing it primarily out of strategy theyre doing it because people they know friends and neighbors and even children are being snatched off the street by thugs with no ID and no accountability. Its fucked up to watch people put their bodies on the line to fight federal overreach from a place of comfort and think tsk tsk they should be doing this in a way I personally would prefer. The actions in L.A. that hes sending in the national guard to quell involved no damaged buildings no flipped cars and no injuries to any officers. Compared to the uprisings in 2020 its positively tame. In fact it was such tame and peaceful protesting that the propagandists are rapidly filling TikTok with videos that edit images from the 2020 uprisings in order to make it look like thats what happened yesterday. So any protest peaceful or otherwise will lead to a retaliatory strike from this admin. Your solution would lewd them to do nothing for the x amount of years of Republican rule. I am sure team Trump does not want this... someone or many could get killed as this spirals out of control. I dont think Dono likes no control and he feeds on public adoration. The video from nightly news is not winning him any fans. What surprises me frankly....such public abductions. Tactically I would think quick quiet would be a better straj for ICE. How about at night at their house? They gotta go to the market or to work. Some of the video you see on tv the protesters are already gathered? Not smart. This is dangerously naive. Trump needs to pretext to simply escalate what he’s already doing. Nobody can seriously argue that Trump and Stephen Miller won’t simply manufacture whatever pretext they want. OP’s argument is ignorant of both past history of authoritarian regimes and Trump’s recent actions People who are against them are already organized. What they need is mass scale resistance to support. This escalation is earlier than expected and that benefits resistance. Given more time the government can handicap movements and have better propaganda to manufacture consent. As an example its estimated 300 National Guard showed up to the protests. 2000 were ordered to deploy. That discrepancy could be a sign of unwillingness to combat these protests. More time would give the government the ability to lock down discipline and properly purge dissent in these institutions. We need to fight back. No one is coming to save us and there is no strategy that will outmaneuver the fascist state because they can do whatever they want to. The rules will not help us. We have to take direct action to stop them slow them down and frustrate them. [removed] What you suggest looks a lot like capitulating with the intent of one day maybe looking into doing something you know if the new political party you joined up with feels like it. Could just join the DSA for a similar experience. Doing nothing also plays into their hands. Evil people will use whatever you give them to fulfill what they want. The only stop to them is to actually stop them and that will usually require playing into their hands first. Yeah he wants to create unrest and have a reason to use armed troops against civilian. If he can use them nice then he can use them hundreds of times. It’s real easy to make the crazy become something that’s normalized. I think Trump will call in the military to shoot his enemies anyway...it is what he wants to do. Btw it is hard to for a civil rights movement when you randomly get arrested and send to a deathcamp in el Salvador. The Civil Rights movement only worked because RFK and JFK were receptive to it. Then RFK convinced LBJ it was the right thing to do. You need to have an Administration that can be reasoned with for that to work. Theyre going to take your rights whether you fight back or not. Theyll either exaggerate an event to justify extreme overreach or one will just happen with enough prodding. They have plenty of historical evidence to look back on for inspiration. The only real way power will change is mid terms in blue and swing states probably. Change enough seats. Stall Trump. Dude you actually sounded like some propaganda machine in other part of the world the most common scapegoat of any problem would be black hands behind the curtain . lol This is a really good point. Getting a federal terrorism charge and 510 in prison for getting shot in the face with a tear gas canister is not a good use of anyones life. Footage of people setting car fires and riding around on their motorcycles Mad Max style while waving Mexican flags is so counterproductive it’s stunning. Deport them all Slowing down is letting them win. Theyve been eroding our rights for a decade. At some point people need to stand up for themselves or they will end up in a death camp I mean you are not wrong this will all make Trump look better. These are riots they are gathering around the police station you are all surprised this happened? We didnt win the revolution through diplomacy And from what I see current dem strategy is to virtue signal about whats going on so maybe some fire is needed [ Removed by Reddit ] Thats like saying if you resist the sexual assault that will only going to make the assailant more mad. At some point you have to fight back. You’re right except the escalation is part and parcel of trumps big plan. You’re blaming the victims when the cause is in dc/probably Florida. FYI cops start 100% of all riots. They are all peaceful protests until cops in riot gear/armed like they are in an active combat zone show up. FYI cops start 100% of all riots. They are all peaceful protests until cops in riot gear/armed like they are in an active combat zone show up. Protestors use AMERICAN FLAGS PUT AWAY THE MEXICAN FLAG THEY ARE FIGHTING WITH AMERICAN CITIZENS. DO NOT PAINT IT OUT TO BE MEXICAN VS AMERICAN!! I have a single challenge. This worked for the civil rights movement in the 50s and 60s. Did it? By the end MLK had become more radical in his speeches and thought and they still killed him. White people especially w for years after his murder. That is of course also erodes the effect of groups like the Black Panther Party which understood the value of showsofforce. In fact I ask simply. What major movement won success with absolutely no violence? Because what you are saying has been said by the right and centrists on every single movement the same ones Id imagine youd currently say were Good and Needed to Happen. Theres a line Im unsure who said it but A Liberal is someone who is for every civil rights issue except the current ones and against every war except the current one. I mention this because you utilized the word leftist in your description which that paired with your stance makes me think you arent one even if you agree with some of what they do. A WhiteWashed Sanitized History is not an honest one. Radical movements yes even the violent aspects were always a part of the history of movements. Good and Bad. Also strict adherence to nonviolence is inherently ideological purity so you are failing your own stance that that must not be the goal. Final Note the peaceful option was when we said Abolish ICE. I do not think it is hard to guess where you stood on that statement. Putting pressure on Newsom to defy Trump admin in some way is Democrats only path forward. The only actual threat of civil war or insurrection that could bring the Trump admin to the table would be if California National Guard defied federal orders. Protests don’t work… never have… JFK? Martin Luther arch duke Ferdinand tsar Alexander Malcom X rafic Harir Julius ceasar…. Etc Silence will not protect us and neither will respectability. It didnt work in 1930s Germany or under the Khmer Rogue and it wont work here. https//www.shsoutherner.net/blogs/73daysletters/2016/12/10/yoursilencewillnotprotectyouhealingwithaudrelorde/ Its working. It used to be obvious to me that Trump was the greater of any evil. After Oct 7 and now this Im starting to wonder... the administration is fascist they are going to escalate regardless. We cant give them an excuse because they dont need an excuse. [removed] Burning cars and waving Mexican flags on the streets of America looks like an invasion and gives Trump plenty of messaging ammo. I think it should be pretty clear to everyone that the administration is gunning for a confrontation regardless of any response they receive. They are exploring ways to defund an entire state out of spite. There is no response that halts slows or impedes their efforts. They ignore legal rulings subvert the constitutional order at every turn. Without this impetus they’d invent another. It’s moot. As to whether this justifies the terror the administration seeks to inflict to the silent majority hard to say. Trump’s numbers are going way down his lawmakers are increasingly spooked and the instability and especially the tariffs are driving wedges into his coalition you can drive a bus through. These fractures will continue to degrade their legitimacy. Lastly the resources he’s burning through to power this hate movement are all the soft virtues of the nation the trust in legitimate and sober leadership that undergirds our credit rating our occasional commitment to our values that makes our international soft power and the pluralistic procrustean bed of creativity and freedom that power our global economic and cultural reach. He has shown he will burn up every last good thing about this place to get a single additional knee to bend. So why not protest? Why not fight? Why not do every single thing in your power to take this where it’s going now? Deny the Oligarch Defend the People Depose the Tyrant Have you ever Read MLKs letter from jail? This is the exact kind of moderate bull crap he wrote about. If not now when? What strategy would you say is in use to burn and loot the city you reside in while waving the flag of another country? Went to a graduation party last night and everyone commented on the Mexican flags. One called it revolt. Trump won this round and the protestors will get NO sympathy from real Americans citizens that is. Yep. Hoping LA and the rest of us wont fall for it and can avoid pulling a Ghorman. But I don’t have high hopes Remember this is what Trump promised and many voted for. If you are going to protest do only non violent protests. Are people that aren’t USA citizen’s allowed to protest? I’m not from the USA and trying to understand. The previous homeland security chief said as much he is trying to make a pretext to be more authoritarian https//theonion.com/protestersurgednottogivetrumpadministrationpretextforwhatitalreadydoing/ Just when riot season begins Trump picks a fight. He wants chaos. Sorry I cant change your mind . It does not matter if they are want Trump wants. You wont comply your way out of this problem. This is what people say literally any time theres a protest and Im calling bullshit. I think one of your premises is off your CMV seems to assume that the majority if American voters oppose deporting illegal aliens. A CNN poll a few months ago found that 57% of American voters support deporting all illegal aliens. The goal of the violent protests is to disrupt law enforcement officers. The goal is not to win over American voters who support the actions of the law enforcement officers. I believe the goal of the protests is to use violence and the threat of violence to oppose the will of the majority of Americans. In 1930s Germany the Brownshirts used political violence to suppress people who spoke out against their ideology. In 1930s Italy Mussolini used combat bands to suppress people who spoke out against his ideology. The protests that firebomb Tesla dealerships scratch swastikas onto Teslas and throw rocks at police and ICE vehicles are violent profascist paramilitary forces. They are not trying to win support they are using violence to oppose the federal government. Unfortunately I think you’re right. I can’t find a fault with anything you said. This will sound terrible.... Preamble I am not a Democrat. I think Democrats need to escalate. Trump has been showing his true colors for years. We arent going to make it 2 years of this. We everyone not just Democrats need to force Congress to act on constitutional violations instead of cutting taxes for billionaires while dismantling the country. If the GOP wants to keep blindly following Trump we everyone should keep pushing the issue. You say Democrats need to organize to win. This isnt a baseball game. The people protesting likely dont identify as Democrats when they got protest. They are protecting their neighbors from government overreach. To them this isnt about their team. Its about their community. And thats the fundamental problem with the GOP right now. They care more about winning than people they are stepping on. GOP voters care more about winning even if it means stripping their healthcare and social security. Sorry other responses made my point much better It provides an excellent and onbrand means of distracting from the Elon spat. The Civil Rights movement of the 40s60s was unpopular with White Americans. Polling existed at the time and we know how the moment was viewed. https//www.pewresearch.org/shortreads/2023/08/10/howpublicattitudestowardmartinlutherkingjrhavechangedsincethe1960s/ Public opinions of MLK from 1960s to today Pew Research Center Most mass movements are unpopular when they are happening. The thing we need to understand is that there’s never going to be a way to fight conservatism that will be generally popular from the beginning. Societies don’t like change and forcing them to share power with groups they consider beneath them will only ever be generally supported by the group out of power. Every positive change we’ve ever had has required a massive amount of sacrifice from communities on the front line and only becomes popular in memory. Stop giving TACO a reason to institute martial law. Hes dying to do it. Frankly the protests are what the left wants too. They just find it unfortunate that people are holding violent actors accountable Trump is just looking for any excuse to take away more rights and any sort of distraction to divert attention from his corruption. Look what he made us do!1” You sound like every abuser ever. I would think this only grows disdain for the movement. Meaning they are garnering more intolerance instead of solidarity. We literally just have a throw a party anywhere but the street Post 12 Cmv The ability to fail goes hand in hand with the inability to gain opportunity Failure is a result of your surroundings not yourself if you are trying Let me preface this by saying the inability to succeed is often a necessary and painful lesson but not for lack of trying. I have worked in a lot of fields and everywhere I have gone from childhood to adulthood I was known as the bumbling clutsy idiot that you cant trust with the most basic or most complicated tasks. Im talking kids in elementary school knew to avoid my mistakes in science lab all the way to my most recent boss avoiding me over the stress it must have caused him to fix my numerous mistakes. I worked in banks casinos the local zoo loan offices a pizza place and an elder care hospice center. Want to know why those things didnt work out? Ill tell ya when things dont work out for you its probably because of some of these reasons * Local zoo the season ended. I lived in a cold climate. *Pizza place I wanted to be more than food because Im not a cook. Not out of disrespect for the profession under any circumstance. *Elder care my grandma who was like my mother died. So I figured taking care of elders would heal that pain. Turns out I couldnt handle my first close patient passing away my bad *Casino I was a cage cashier. I failed miserably. All the way until the casino floor I was a competent and trustworthy person of ability. The instant I was surrounded by flashing lights slot machine beeps and excited table games outbursts I was a failure! I couldnt keep focused enough to give the correct amount of money 60% of the time! *Banks I switched the tubes in the drive through lane when I was distracted *probably looking at the front door as it beeped every time it was opened* and gave someone another persons ID. I almost went to jail for that accident * The loan office this one is last because it is the most recent and painful of separations Ive encountered. I couldnt stay at any job before this one for more than a year but this job was patient educational and understanding. This job taught me how to slow down how to check twice and how to manage others properly. In the meantime I was studying on my passion of providing items to those in need. I am not a forcible person about religion but since I was a little girl I prayed of the ability to help others. I grew this passion into a fulltime business that Ive utilized to give to people all across America and in Europe. Its crazy! I let the passion take me to a place of fear and comfort where I felt the need to jump off of that metaphorical bridge. *This is what life was made to be* I left that job the only job who has been patient and kind enough to me to let me learn and grow because I have been given the ability to transform that knowledge pain time and effort into results that help people who hurt just like I did. Because I was ready finally to execute those thoughts based on the knowledge I received from people patient enough to teach me. So this year I opened my own business. What?? How crazy is that?? I know some of you just want a stable job or a stable significant other or a stable car sleep kids etc. but what are dreams when they arent given the chance to be executed? Whats the point of trying so hard to fail so many times? This. This is the point The surroundings you couldnt gain success in were surroundings that did not foster the ability to learn how to avoid failureNo comments found==================== The US war in the Middle East could have been way better if they made it only about Bin Laden In reality the US sought to overthrow the government of both Afghanistan and Iraq and replace them with ones heavily shaped by US influence wow both of them border Iran…coincidence much!? I contend that a much much better thing to do in response to 9/11 would have just been to stage an allout manhunt for Bin Laden. Here are my arguments it makes much more sense in Arab/Afghan culture. You killed thousands of our people. They were innocent civilians. Thus Bin Laden must die it’s far less costly or invasive of the Middle East. We don’t care about changing governments or occupying countries. We just want Bin Laden. Give us the criminal Bin Laden and we will be satisfied. I guess kind of repeating the first point This Is How They Think. You Killed Our People. You Must Pay. I am Powerful and You Will Pay for Killing my People. it’s badass and impressive. Heavily armed and armored American troops are all over your country. Look the cause is that the criminal Bin Laden slaughtered our people. You suffer this because of him. Hand him over and it will all be over. Fail to hand him over and we will continue to comb your country tooth and nail until he is produced.” Anyway tell me your critiques of this. The idea that the Iraq war had nothing to do with bin laden is not a hot take. It’s pretty well understood today and also at the time. There’s a good argument that the Afghanistan war was directly to do with finding bin laden. The Taliban were shielding and aiding him. And the US nearly caught him in the first few months of invasion but he slipped away. So there wasn’t really a way to launch a huge manhunt in Afghanistan with a non cooperative government The war in the Middle East” was totally separate from the war in Afghanistan which was all about getting bin Laden. Heavily armed and armored American troops are all over your country. Look the cause is that the criminal Bin Laden slaughtered our people. You suffer this because of him. Hand him over and it will all be over. Fail to hand him over and we will continue to comb your country tooth and nail until he is produced.” We did all that and they didn’t hand him over. Why? He wasn’t there. He was in Pakistan. No amount of heavily armored troops in Afghanistan would have led to the people of Afghanistan handing over OBL he wasn’t in that country anymore. The war in Afghanistan began with a demand to turn over Bin laden. The Afghan government refused and war followed. There are transcripts of conversations in which high ranking members of the u.s. government wanted to bomb a country to remind the world of u.s. power years before 9/11. Although it may have initially been a revenge mission in retrospect it seems clear that many people in the government simply wanted to cause as much devastation to sear u.s. military might in the mind of everyone else and while many people look back on the invasion as a failure I personally believe the u.s. only came out of the war more powerful. To the average person the invasion was a joke but to other world leaders it was a show of what the u.s. could get away with and the absolute power they hold over geopolitical systems such as the ICC. To be clear I am against the invasion of Iraq and Afghanistan but I think that it was a resounding success if the goal was to destabilize the region and spread even more influence to the other elites of the world. So I think you’re partially right but the real issue is the terms being used. So long as it’s a war” it’s not about justice for 9/11 perpetrators. Bin Laden was not a head of state and Al Qaeda was not a government so if you view the conflict as something meant to address the terror attack of September 11 it should have been a police action. You go to war with nations over acts of war. You arrest criminals and put them on trial. Then there are WAR criminals which get both. If you want to catch a single guy you send a detective not an army tank. The US had and heavily used espionage assets in the middle east with the intent of tracking down Bin Laden and sure enough thats how they found him. You didnt hear about that because well they were *espionage* assets. This is a pretty essential part of a manhunt the person youre hunting not knowing whos hunting them. As such you dont send a *military battalion* to track down a wanted criminal. The invasion almost certainly set back the Manhunt by years Bin Laden avoided military pursuit via the simple method of avoiding places that the US army was visibly invading. If it was only about Bin Laden wed have never sent an army at all. The fact we *did* shows that was an excuse. If the US only invaded Afghanistan then it wouldnt be the war in the Middle East because Afghanistan is not in the Middle East. Id recommend people to learn at least a little bit about the topic before commenting on it... Iraq was going to happen regardless of 9/11. We had been at war with them a decade prior and had continually bombed targets within the country for years throughout the Clinton admin. Iraq was always about controlling the flow of oil from the Persian golf but you can’t really say that so you say shit like WMD The princely states were the cause for tensions between India and Pakistan. A widespread trend among the South Asian populace is to attribute IndoPakistan tensions to religious grounds. I can understand why the main reason these countries were even partitioned was on religious grounds. However as we have seen in the decades since India has had good relations with several Muslimmajority nations such as Bangladesh Maldives and the MiddleEastern countries. Both countries have close ties to the United Kingdom their former coloniser. I think that the issue of the princely states was the core reason for the wars between India and Pakistan. By the time India and Pakistan gained their independence they were functioning nations with heavily armed militaries and politically mobilised populations. To add to that the political elite in both nations saw the princely states as antiquated entities. Giving them the ability to choose to whom they would accede was an added layer on this recipe for disaster. One example of such a curious case is that of Jodhpur which despite having a Hindu ruler and Hindu population considered joining Pakistan in exchange for access to ports and grain. The legal obscurity around this and the ignoring of the geopolitical reality of the two independent nations eventually caused the Junagadh situation and finally the issue in Kashmir which led to the first war between the two independent nations. While I think partition was unavailable by mid1947 had the proposed borders also included the princely states the new states could have had a more friendly relationship. In this proposal princely states that were contiguous to the newly created states should have been partitioned as Hindumajority and Muslimmajority territories similar to how Bengal and Punjab were partitioned. Hence Hyderabad and Junagadh would have naturally joined India Kalat would have joined Pakistan and Jammu and Kashmir would be partitioned between India and Pakistan based on their Hindu and Muslim populations. This clarity would not help the millions of people who were displaced due to partition and would not avoid the humanitarian crisis but it would ensure there would be no war in the upcoming years and perhaps could have led to a peaceful South Asian bloc as well. If the princely states land disputes were the cause of tension this would have been over decades ago. Border skirmisher rarely get this heated. In general I try to sound neutral but its hard to in this case. Pakistan intentionally made itself a safe haven for islamists from very near its founding. They where a crucial part in the rise of political islam in the Middle East. India has decent relations with other muslim states because few others are as bad as Pakistan. They make Saudi Arabia look like Norway. The root of the tension has always been Pakistans islamism. War is the norm in history rather than the exception. Muslims and Hindus have had a history of war and violence for more than a thousand years ever since Islamic armies spread Islam into South Asia. Thinking that humans are naturally peaceful is unrealistic idealism. Pakistan and India got off on the wrong foot because of the atrocities during partition. Kashmir was the immediate cause of their first and subsequent conflict. However in your alternative history partition is still messy and the enmity between the two new states would still exist. Maybe there would be some other place where the two states clash. Or maybe there would be no direct conflict but a cold war. In real life the two states went to blows over Bangladesh in the 70s which was a conflict that had no direct relationship to Kashmir. I think British empire building was the root cause. If the continent was left to its own devices the Muslim/Hindu divide probably wouldn’t have turned into the bloodbath of partition. It took a few ill guided Brits to set off the killing at the time of partition. I dont have much to say about your post but I think its bit of lie when you say that they have a good relationship with Bangladesh. Wasnt the whole reason the Kashmir princely state issue resolved or not resolved so messily is that the prince in question at the time of partition Hari Singh was a Hindu monarch ruling over a Muslim majority population who would have just joined Pakistan if not for that? Like I guess that means its the princely states fault but its only because of religion that it was an issue in the first place and the princely states that didnt have this same disconnect didnt cause any problems. Not really... that might just be the flashing point now but hindumuslim issues ran deep even before the separation. Now majority of pakistanis have shifted the hatred from hindus but its not been the case in India. BJP is built on muslim hatred their pm is known to be the butcher of gujrat and he has become pm so u can expect other politicians to follow in those footsteps and those politicians benefit from provoking war with pakistan every now and then. India has major border issues with China too but the Indian gov never acts that way towards china because that wont serve their political motives. Im sure lots of indians are gonna downvote but wont change the truth. A global social media detox for one year is whats required to drastically reduce polarization and improve mental health in the world Social media has truly amplified the echo Chambers on both sides leading to mass polarization and confirmation bias on both sides. In doing so it resulted in alternative viewpoints being less accepted by society. There isnt much that people agree on except maybe how the world is ending and the need for a new economic system. Since social media is increasingly blamed for the loss of mental health and rise in polarisation and hostility a social media detox for people to touch grass for once isnt far fetched. We survived without social media before the 21st Century and we definitely can now. Social media has truly amplified the echo Chambers on both sides leading to mass polarization and confirmation bias on both sides. In doing so it resulted in alternative viewpoints being less accepted by society. There isnt much that people agree on You contradicted yourself. The fact that there are BOTH sides shows that alternative viewpoints *are* accepted in society. For much of the presocial media age in many countries there was only *one* ideology you were allowed to believe in and that was the one the state blared on statecontrolled radio and TV. The internet and social media being more anonymous and further from the grasp of government helped diversify opinions from traditional media. Gay people should have equal rights is one of those opinions that flourished thanks to social media. What does this mean? You want to shut off the Internet for a year? Sure humans as a species survived before social media but that doesn’t mean that social media hasn’t helped some people survive who wouldn’t otherwise. Like without social media where do gay kids in conservative areas get their sex ed and told not to kill themselves? Wouldnt that just lead to people pending more time watching TV which is already a vehicle to polarize people and without social media even more money would be invested into TV propaganda I think we should all just switch back to having dumb phones. I’m over having a smart phone. Ok. Byyyyyyyyyeeeeee Or you can just legally using the law regulate positive feedback algorithms. It doesnt need to be anything so extreme either say for every 9 units of x content you get 1 unit of x content and for every 5 units of x content you get 5 units of unrelated y content. The internet isn’t the cause of the polarisation but the tool. Certain politicians *cough*Trump. Purposefully stir division as a political strategy. Without the internet propaganda may be slightly less quick and effective. But societies have collapsed with less. The issue I see with that is that with the media abdicating the job of informing people of what is actually happening it will only serve to allow for atrocities to pass without notice simply because it was not in your backyard. We shouldnt reduce polarization. Opposing fascism is good. Depolarisation means less opposition. Thats bad. Let me introduce you to AM radio. Completely agree. Gen Zer here. Grew up with SM thought previous generations were just being boomers. But while Ive never even hit a vape I developed a crippling SM addiction which destroyed my mental health and still affects me. Ive only been able to detach from hatred and polarity by detaching from SM. The premise of SM was nice but it needs to go. The pendulum of extremes is what keeps the mechanism of society moving. After seeing today’s scenario and reading history. I feel like society does not evolve in straight lines or steady gradients. It does not evolve through equilibrium. At its core swings a great pendulum arcing between extremes patriarchy and feminism liberalism and conservatism authority and dissent and collectivism and individualism. These are not just ideological opposites they are engines of movement. This constant tension rather than harmony is what keeps the machinery of social life in motion. Each swing is a response a recoil from excess. When one ideology dominates too long it becomes rigid complacent or unjust. The pendulum swings away—not out of malice but necessity. Like for example Feminism did not emerge randomly. Feminism rises from patriarchal overreach and centuries of patriarchal dominance. Then in Markets they loosen when state control strangles initiative. The Conservatism gathers force when liberal progress uproots foundations too much. Each arc is a course correction though rarely gentle. The swing from one end to the other may feel like regression or revolution. In economics this pattern is just as visible. Booms and busts deregulation and reregulation austerity and stimulus—these shifts mirror social mood. When trust in individual freedom is high markets are loosened. When collective fear sets in states intervene. When rich hoard too much wealth society collapses a rebellion comes to eat the rich” and wealth redistribution takes place. Stability then is not the absence of extremes but their rhythm. The swing is not failure it is function. And understanding society requires watching the arc—not longing for stasis. At each stage one extreme—when left unchallenged—breeds its opposite. It’s not necessarily that one side wins” permanently rather each extreme overshoots triggering a corrective backlash. Progress is not a march but a swing. And though each extreme may claim permanence it is the rhythm between them that sustains the structure. The clock of society does not tick forward by holding still—it moves only because the pendulum swings. **Of course this is a broad framework—individual events and contexts often carry their own unique nuances that don’t fit neatly into a simple pendulum model. But understanding general patterns requires one to overlook nuances and outliers.** Things do often happen this way but I dont think its productive. People tend to throw the baby out with the bathwater. Like when men tired of outofcontrol feminists gravitate towards Andrew Tate. Or those that think the solution to income inequality is a Marxist take over of the government. A lot of times the right correction is a 1° turn be we do a 180. Yes men should want women to be safe and have equal opportunity and ideologues need to tone it down or be toned down. [removed] Moving where? moving towards progress? or just general movement swaying back and forth? If its the latter that society is just generally moving as in changing without direction thus pointlessly? that seems fairly self evident. If you want to say towards progress that involves defining what progress means. Nothing the us government has done since fdr could be considered hard left by any honest perspective. Funding fascist dictatorships is pretty hard right has the us government ever supported communist revolutions? The patriot act passed by conservatives is a very far right bill. Has the us government arrested any of the bankers responsible for the 2008 financial crash? American politicians are actively discussing birth right citizenship. Does even senstor Sanders public call for the end of capitalism? The things that are seen as leftist wins in modern years are pretty much factually all compromises. Obamacare is a compromise for Medicare for all. The proact is a compromise for guaranteeing union representation as a right. Due to combination of legalized bribery and gerrymandering the us government as squarely remained center to far right for the past few decades. If your vision of the mechanism of social mobility is correct what happens when the pendulum is arrested or broken? What happens when corrections are prevented? Say when a party prevents an opposing president from appointing his choice for supreme court justice and then reverses itself to allow its own president to appoint two? In 1932 voters rendered a verdict on conservative governance by electing the most liberal candidates in the nations history. The result was that they and their subsequent liberal successors governed so well that a conservative couldnt get back into the white house for 36 years. Now after 50 some years of much more conservative governance two devastating economic failures the dismantling of the infrastructure and protections created by their liberal predecessors conservatives have crippled education and taken over the media making an informed electorate a nostalgic memory. Theve made it impossible for the pendulum to swing back for a free populace to render considered judgment on their failure or success. What happens then? Society doesnt evolve. A bunch of individuals develop a philosophy and later seek Legitimacy either through existing institutions or through force Every evolution liberal or illiberal is the manifestation of long effort of usually a smaller portion of the population conspiring for a period before seeking support. You are describing historical dialectical materialism. I would agree to some extent. It is not in the comfortable stasis that life propels itself. It is in the extreme heat of fire and the channeling of this by forces that the new forms take shape. Stasis inherently leads to breaking down. In some instance slowly in others quickly. To cling to things is not a state that can be adopted long term. The clinging or the drive for stasis is a force that acts in combination with the forces of Chaos or incessant change. The two interact and the things that stick remain. The things that dont fade away. Every person has a function to play in this process. Some people personify the chaos. Others personify the force of order or stasis. Most flip flops between depending on the aspect or process. That is the way of nature and all things. The issue is that now the natural process is being tainted. Things that are promoting end goals that illustrate some form of Utopian outcome are advocating stasis. Things like the end goal of feminism/communism/anarchism/conservatism or any of the isms which are blind to the fact that when they achieve their goals there will always be forces to challenge them. There is no sanctuary. No utopia. It is a dream and nothing more. Nothing is exempt from the forces of nature itself and its processes. Life never rests. Disagree. Society moves through technology not through ideaology. Many other places are also progressing while those that keep your mentioned ideas under check move the fastest. Example Singapore Korea under Park Taiwan under Jiang China under Deng. The pendulum only detracts from actual progress. I happen to agree with you OP and these observations has been made before. LOL did you make this with AI. This sounds like you have a vaguely uninterpreted idea in your mind but you dont know how to deliver it so you give some loose descriptors and details to a text generator model and it spewed out some info. This is what it looks like if not then pardon my language LOL Buttercup not Princess Morbucks sparked the whole rivalry in The Powerpuff Girls S2 E1 Stuck Up Up and Away.” # The ThreeDay Spiral * **Day 1 The polite ask.** Princess shows up in regular clothes and asks POLITELY to join the Powerpuff Girls. The girls huddle and give a unanimous civil sorry no.” Blossom does the talking Buttercup mostly scowls. * **Day 2 Double meltdown.** 1. Princess returns in a knockoff Powerpuff costume. The instant Buttercup sees it she squares up fists cocked ready to swing. 2. Minutes later the Mayor calls about a breadandbutter bank robbery. Princess tags along totally botches the takedown and nearly gets civilians hurt. Same day second time Buttercup steps in again—*still* itching to throw hands. * **Day 3 Armor &amp ragdolling.** Princess ego bruised beyond repair rolls up in hightech battle armor and starts trouble. Buttercup charges first…and gets ragdolled across the Pokey Oaks schoolyard. # Why I Put the Blame on Buttercup 1. **Opening posture = No and fuck you for even asking.”** A kid in cosplay is not a capitalV villain. Buttercup’s Day2 fury tells Princess the only path to respect is violence. 2. **Missed leadership moment.** The girls have mentored outsiders before—Bunny in Twisted Sister” Robin in Superfriends.” Buttercup skips that playbook and jumps straight to intimidation. 3. **Selffulfilling prophecy.** Treating Princess like an enemy before she’s broken a law practically writes her villain origin story. 4. **Total clash with the show’s moral Blossom spells it out.** After Princess loses on Day 3 Blossom lays down *the* creed Blossom embodies the series’ heart first fists second” ethos—while Buttercup spends two straight days modeling the reverse **Because you’re just a spoiled brat. And being a Powerpuff Girl isn’t about getting your way or having the best stuff or being popular or powerful. It’s about using your own unique abilities to help people and the world we all live in. And you little girl have done nothing worthy of the name ‘Powerpuff.’**” # Smarter” InUniverse Moves Yes They’d Make Boring TV * Keep the unanimous no” but match Blossom’s diplomacy instead of Buttercup’s brawlenergy. * Lay out clear boundaries Train with the Professor start with small rescues *earn* the suit.” * After the botched robbery escort her home and loop in her dad no punches necessary. Sure any of that would shrink an 11minute cartoon to a 30second PSA but inside Townsville logic they’re smarter and way more onbrand. Buttercup’s fistsfirst diplomacy took a brat and forged a nemesis. **Convince me it was the right call.** I dont think you can fairly equate scowling in response to such an absurd request as No and fuck you for asking so were a little off base right out of the gate. Two even in instances where mentorship is appropriate which this is not thats Blossoms role not Buttercups. Three look what you made me do is never an appropriate excuse. Morbuck is responsible for her own choices and actions even if Buttercup was mean to her. And not to put too find a point on it but Morbucks *is* a spoiled brat who does not have a demeanor or personality suited to powerpuff work. She is the one that escalated things at every turn Buttercup was only ever reactive to those escalations. She possibly couldve reacted better thats true but primary responsibility still lies with Morbucks. Had she taken the no for an answer or even taken a halfsecond outside view of the situation none of it wouldve happened. Buttercup didnt create anything Morbucks was a nemisis from the start. Shes a nemisis to anyone who doesnt instantly give her what she wants and that predates any encounter with Buttercup or the Powerpuff Girls. It feels to me like youre working hard to interpret events in a way that justifies your contrarian view. 1. **Opening posture = No and fuck you for even asking.”** This just seems factually inaccurate. Their opening posture was to politely decline Princess attempt to invite herself into their group group and functionally family. Not only does Princess refuse to accept their very reasonable choice but she then attempts to act as if they had responded affirmatively. Its perfectly understandable to be frustrated by that behaviour. 2. **Missed leadership moment.** So? The Powerpuffs dont owe Princess their time and attention. The fact that they have occasionally identified and supported talented individuals doesnt obliged them to humour every obviously unsuitable rando that expresses an interest. 3. **Selffulfilling prophecy.** The Powerpuffs dont treat Princess like a villain until she acts like one. At each step they behave proportionately. When she asks to join they politiely decline. When she tries to unilaterally attach herself to the group they tell her forcefully that she isnt welcome. When she endangers others they give her a verbal dressing down. Its only when she become violent that they respond with violence. Hearts first fists second By my counter the Powerpuffs used fists fourth at the earliest. Frankly Im not sure what Heart dictates that they should have done. Of your suggested courses of action it seems like options 1. and 3. both assume that there was some way of rejecting Princess that she would have ultimately accepted. The Powerpuffs rejected her multiple times in multiple ways. It seems ridiculous to blame the Powerpuffs for not finding the hypothetical perfectly formulated rejection that she might have accepted rather than blaming Princess for refusing to take No for an answer. Theres also no evidence that Princess father would have restrained her. If anything it seems apparent he facilitates her behaviour. Did you really use ChatGPT to compose this post? The good cop bad cop would break down easily if all it ever took to make a villain was one bad cop in a group of cops. If commercial organ donation is illegal then commercial surrogacy should be as well. **EDIT I shouldve been clearer in my title this CMV IS NOT about VOLUNTARY organ donation its about the commercial sale of organs.** To be clear Im not necessarily saying that organ ~~donations~~ sales **should** be illegal arguments about why it should be legal arent really going to change my mind here. Im also not going to be persuaded by the well there are plenty of other comparable legal forms of risky bodily exploitation under capitalism argument if that is the case then we should be banning **more** things that meet our justification for preventing organ sales not shrugging and allowing all forms of comparable exploitation. As an example my arguments might suggest that paying for plasma or participating in medical trials should also be illegal if the logic holds and they are morally comparable then yes those might need to be illegal for moral consistency. The crux of the issue is that doesnt make any logical sense to me why every country in the world would ban selling almost all organs as commodities but a handful of them including my home in the US allow women to be paid for the use of their reproductive organs to gestate and birth a child. In other words the justifications for limiting commercial organ sales hold when applied to commercial surrogacy if not more so **so if one is illegal then they both should be.** Why? Lets start with the basic arguments against the sale of organs. 1. **Removing an organ entails a significant lifethreatening risk.** Any form of surgery exposes someone to the risk of infection surgical complications chronic health issues and/or death. The risks may be relatively low but it is absolutely the case that they could kill or severely harm you. 2. **The only time people should be allowed to take significant lifethreatening risks is with their fully informed free consent.** Look I get it. There are all kinds of potentially dangerous things that people want to do for one reason or another and we shouldnt just ban all of them. The general social principle we have adopted is that people are allowed to assess those risks and make a personal calculation about whether to accept them. However this is predicated on them understanding what they are signing up for/possibly risking being informed being capable of making decisions to begin with e.g. not being impaired or a child and not predicated on coercion e.g. a contract signed with a gun to my head is not a valid contract. 3. **The commercial sale of organs inevitably creates markets for those organs that pay the minimum amount possible for them.** This is usually the first and most obvious reason to ban the sale of organs. Given the risks of giving up an organ people arent going to do it unless they are compensated and people with the means to afford an organ are going to find the amount of money that will induce someone to take that risk. This is no different from any other market I want something I dont have and someone else does have it but I have money they need and so we make a deal. When we consider that getting an organ is literally a lifeordeath necessity it is perfectly reasonable to suspect that absent regulation/bans a forprofit market **will** emerge. The price of those organs will follow the pattern set in every other market people with the supply will try to get as much money as possible but the people with the demand only want to spend as much as they need to get it. 4. **The people willing to take the risks of organ donation in exchange for money are going to be desperate which blurs their consent.** Most people arent looking to give up an organ for a living. Its painful difficult incurs serious risks and just isnt as appealing to people as other ways to earn money. The existence of a whole range of hazardous fields proves that people are willing to risk their health and safety if the price is right there is a reason that the majority of miners and sex workers globally are drawn from the poorest sectors of society. Given an alternative most people dont choose these physically risky jobs unless they have to due to necessity. When the choice is destitution/death or doing something you dont want to people who select the latter are doing so out of coercion which means they arent freely consenting. Moreover the incentives for people to serve as middlemen within a market like sex work in order to profit themselves create situations where people have an incentive to claim their worker is consenting in order to continue to profit from a client who might hesitate if they knew someone was being forced. Pimping and sex trafficking is highly lucrative and we have every reason to believe that middlemen would exist to connect organ buyers with organ sellers who might be consenting in order to make money for themselves without taking on any of the physical risks. 5. **A system that allows for organ sales will further inequity in healthcare and society and cut into donations.** The people who are going to be able to afford organs are going to be those wealthy enough to afford them. A person who previously thought about donating for altruistic reasons would have a strong incentive to profit off the exchange instead. Need a kidney? Better hope youre wealthy or theres no way you are going to be able to afford one when youre competing with rich people at the same time. And who are the people who are going to giving up their organs? Those who are willing to part with them for the least amount of money as the market will gravitate towards them. It wont just be poor people it will be the very poorest of the poor in the poorest parts of the world taking on health risks and dangers that richer populations wouldnt be willing to accept because the alternative of brutal poverty is so awful. And if there are complications and the money you made evaporates when you cant work and have your own medical bills? Sucks to be you. 6. **Alternative options exist.** Specifically a donation from the deceased. We have the ability to give people the organs they need to survive without creating a nightmare hellscape of bodily capitalism by harvesting healthy organs from people who die. There are even things we can do to strengthen these systems by using optout donation schemes rather than optin ones for example. If literally the only possible way to save someone who needs a kidney was to get it from someone alive this might be a different conversation. Since it isnt creating a market isnt a necessity. Also voluntary donations without a profit motive do also exist. So...does that hold for commercial surrogacy? Yes and then some. 1. **Being pregnant is very physically risky.** Gestation to term and childbirth are potentially lifethreatening medical conditions. Millions of women suffer major health issues or die every year due to pregnancy it is not a neutral physical state but a highly dangerous one. If anything it is *more* dangerous than organ donation about 10 in 100000 kidney donors die within 90 days but 32.9 in 100000 mothers die in childbirth. 2. **Consent is an essential part of whether a pregnancy is considered acceptable or immoral.** Setting aside the most staunchly antiabortion views it is pretty widely held that a woman being pregnant against her will is repugnant. Children who are impregnated people held in sexual slavery victims of sexual assault and others are not usually held to have freely signed up for their ordeal and there are a whole host of laws designed to prevent that from happening and to allow a woman impregnated against her will to get out the situation via abortion. 3. **Commercial surrogacy is a massive international market.** Only a handful of countries allow for commercial surrogacy yet the market for it generated $14 billion in 2022. While surrogates in the US might cost as much as $200000 you can hire a woman from Southeast Asia for a fraction of that and many many people do. 4. **Commercial surrogates are usually poor and there is a sprawling system to manage and connect them to buyers.** Remember that $200000 a person might pay an American surrogate? Most of that money isnt going to the surrogate herself people need to pay the agencies that find these women the clinics that will impregnate them the legal fees for adopting the baby and in most cases *the medical insurance for the surrogate who likely didnt have it before.* Why dont most surrogates have insurance to begin with? Because they arent people with great options to begin with. The surrogate is barely clearing $80000 when its all said and done every other cost they bear including any future medical costs postpartum is on them. If that seems like a massive windfall consider how poorly most lottery winners do with their sudden earnings. Add to that the fact that international surrogates are making a fraction of what Americans are and the problems of desperation multiply. 5. **Commercial surrogacy is exploding in parts of the world with women desperate enough to need it.** Until India and Thailand cracked down on international commercial surrogacy it was a major destination for Westerners looking to rent a womb on the cheap. Now that demand has moved to Southeast Asian countries with low incomes and desperate women. This only entrenches the exploitation of the developing world by those with the money to take what they want from people without better options. 6. **Having a child is not a mortal necessity and alternatives exist for those who do want one.** People dont need to have kids they want to. You wont die without one as much as it might be something you want. And if you do want kids you can always have them on your own use reproductive technology like IVF on yourself to help get one or adopt a child who already exists but isnt being cared for. You could also find someone willing to take on th It’s been decades but when I was in law school they taught us that the surrogacy isn’t an enforceable contract and the mother can always refuse to give up the baby at least in the US but then the people paying for the baby could sue for their costs back. But also the mother could sue the sperm contributor for child support. It seemed like a big mess but I never looked deeper into it than what I needed to pass the test. The difference imo is that is a lot more practical to kill someone and harvest their organs vs kidnap someone and use them as a surrogate for someone else. Essentially black market organ industry would be much more evasive and prominent than black market surrogate industry which would be more expensive and difficult to run than say a prostitution ring. And it would be harder to say whether they were given legitimately or not. Isn’t your title a little inaccurate? Your argument seems more like selling your organs should be illegal the same reasons that you have for that also apply to commercial surrogacy so that should be illegal as well. Isnt the big difference that in organ sales/donations the organ is gone. And although pregnancy cares a health toll for sure provided that nothing goes wrong the surrogate doesnt lose any part of her body. Like a chicken laying an egg. Apologies if you went over this in the post but its quite long so Im not reading all of it. Organ sales are illegal because organs are potentially life saving items which shouldnt be reserved for those who can afford them. Babies are many things but theyre not that. You can potentially live a long life without having children. Additionally theyre kind of a renewable resource. Women can give birth to multiple children over the course of their lives but they cannot donate their kidneys multiple times. [deleted] The big difference is that surrogacy has opportunity costs. Most jobs cannot be worked throughout pregnancy and most people purchasing surrogacy will not want you working past the first few months if at all. So you are trading in the money you could have made working that time for the money paid for surrogacy. And in fact as weve seen from studies of the gender wage gap a pregnancy often interrupts your career trajectory leading to lower wages longterm. So whereas being allowed to sell organs could create competition that puts pressure on *all* poor people to donate and that drops the price of organs very low there is a natural price floor on surrogacy since it trades off against wages. This limits the number of people for whom it makes sense to be a surrogate limits how low the price can go and eases the pressure on poor people to be surrogates compared to what would happen with organ donation. Ill attempt to slightly change your view by pointing out that your argument presupposes that commercial surrogacy is legal while in actuality Keep your view. You have no idea what youre talking about. ...isnt commercial surrogacy already technically illegal? One of my biggest moral issues with the sale of organs is that it inevitably result in the wealthy having access to organ transplants while the poor are left to die. To me that seems like a capitalist dystopia—healthcare should ideally be available equally to everyone regardless of wealth. There are also practical issues. Commercial organ sales would create a large incentive to lie about the organs being sold which could have severe consequences. With commercial surrogacy it’s not really healthcare in a traditional sense. People NEED organs or they will die. No one NEEDS a surrogate mother. So my main moral objection doesn’t really exist. Practically commercial surrogacy doesn’t seem to have any major issues. Not saying it’s perfect but the benefits for freedom seem to outweigh the costs. I think you also greatly overstate the risks of childbirth. For a healthy mother with access to a high standard of healthcare the risks of having a child are almost nil. TLDR Organ sales would lead to organ transplants going to the highest bidder which is a disturbing and obviously unacceptable outcome. Paid surrogates similarly go to the highest bidder but this is much more acceptable for obvious reasons. Because of this while the state absolutely has a strong interest in banning organ sales individual freedoms outweigh the state’s interest in banning paid surrogate mothers. This is a womens issue. An issue of female bodily autonomy. If a woman wants to carry a child for someone else then she should have the right to and because women are members of society there should be systems in place funded by society to protect her from being exploited in the process. Thats the surrogacy issue. As to the commercialization of it... Men are allowed to sell semen. Women are allowed to sell eggs. Clearly the commercialization of reproduction is allowed in society. If you start saying women should not be allowed to carry a child to term for money then you open a whole ethical can of worms. It could easily be avoided by investigating exploitation of surrogates and regulating the industry like every industry in history. And I do mean every industry. There is not a single mainstream industry that exists today that did not go through a period of widespread exploitation that was then heavily regulated to get to the point it is today. Just do that for surrogacy. Hmm I can see why its in the grayzone but Thinking of it as Buying Vs renting a human. Buying a human is a taboo now today slavery is a really big no no. Commercial Organ harvesting is on that line... Its ownership of humans and human lives. Yet Renting a person for all sorts of jobs is perfectly acceptable even if the job entails serious risk of bodily harm. As long as enough safety precautions are met renting a person for a risky job is perfectly acceptable. I will compare commercial surrogacy to being an infantry soldier. You are assigned this job based on your physicality you are deployed on a mission that takes several month. Your life is at risk you suffer uncomfortable scenarios experience pain. But its a job and it pays well and once youre done you get to return back to normal life almost as though nothing happened. I think the main difference is that commercial surrogacy allows a level of prejudice that would preclude the class of people that makes organs sales unethical. You need your organs to live. A surrogate doesnt die by using her womb. Most of those arguments could also be made for a ton of jobs. Post 19 Cmv almost all hunting for meat or population control isnt justified Author Fit_Product4912Post Text Obvious exception if youre in the incredibly rare situation of having no other option for survival but to kill an animal and eat it. Im not judging someone whos literally dying Hunting for meat recreationally isnt sustainable with the growing population of hunting reigons and regardless of preventative measures hunting consistently changes the ecosystems Afaik there are non lethal methods of population control like sterilization efforts that are essentially hunting an animal with tranquilizers and releasing it after. It seems like to me if efforts like this where funded by local governments instead of just encouraging people to shoot the problem out of existence it would be as effective as hunting because a sterilized animal is the same as a dead one from the standpoint of premptive population control. At first glance it might seem ironic but hunters tend to be huge proponents of environmentalism and conservation. Because they dont want to see wild places destroyed as it would destroy their hobby. So you think it would be better to pay people to go out and give say elk birth control rather than make money by selling hunting tags? How much will that cost and how much lost revenue will there be? Now you want small rural local governments to pay for that? Where do you suppose that money will come from? How could that be reasonable policy? Hunting for meat recreationally isnt sustainable Yes it is thats why we have limits and tags. Hunting for meat recreationally isnt sustainable This is handled easily with systems of tagging and bag limits. Thats basic gamekeeping with roots in the middle ages. Afaik there are non lethal methods of population control like sterilization efforts that are essentially hunting an animal with tranquilizers and releasing it after. Why would I kidnap a deer and perform surgery to remove it from the gene pool when I could kill and eat it and have the exact same effect on the environment? It seems like to me if efforts like this where funded by local governments instead of just encouraging people to shoot the problem out of existence Bud there are places where theyll pay you to shoot the problem out of existence. Because again why do this complicated surgery nonsense if you could accomplish the same thing with a $0.50 bullet? I cant speak for everywhere in the world but here in Canada leaving certain species run rampant can actually be harmful to both their own species and tons of other species living in the area. Instead of hunting the animal and using its meat to feed people the animal can actually end up consuming all the necessary vegetation in its territory that various species need to survive the colder months. In this case Im specifically talking about deer the excess population will die a slow death from hunger while also causing the death of other wildlife during those months. So why not just tranq them and carry them somewhere else? Because they will destroy the delicate balance of the habitat youll be dropping them in and will cause the slow death of tons of other species. All this to say its really not as simple as you make it out to be there are a lot of government programs dedicated to conservation of wildlife for a reason. This is one of those situations where if we don’t control it they will just do it illegally unethically and dangerously. Like drugs alcohol or prostitution. The types of population control you describe are not very precise. Sure we can sterilize animals at a significant cost to taxpayers but it’s hard to predict the exact effects that will have on the ecosystem. It can also be psychologically devastating to those animals. Many animals get severely depressed if they are unable to have offspring. It’s basically psychological torture so it’s not like we’re being kind and humane to them. Some might argue it’s more cruel than hunting. Hunting for meat recreationally isnt sustainable with the growing population of hunting reigons I think this is obviously untrue provided regulation is imposed to control recreational hunting as is generally the case. If an area is being overhunted by recreational hunters then limits can be adjusted to ensure it us sustainable. ....and regardless of preventative measures hunting consistently changes the ecosystems Why is not changing the ecosystem a goal in the first place? Like it or not you cant tow humanity outside the environment humans are part of the ecosystem. Human predation is completely natural! Afaik there are non lethal methods of population control like sterilization efforts that are essentially hunting an animal with tranquilizers and releasing it after. OK but like.... why? If the end result is the same kind of population control then what is the point other than imposing some kind of hippy vegan ideology? I think hunting for meat is more humane than factory farming so I dont want to discourage it even if its not sustainable if too many people do it. I agree that the excuse of population control is ridiculous. And of course killing animals you dont eat for population control is vile. Afaik there are non lethal methods of population control like sterilization efforts that are essentially hunting an animal with tranquilizers and releasing it after. Do yourself a favor and Google population control of deer through sterilization. Because Research on this topic is pretty conclusive that this would be a dumb expensive program $1000/deer with at least 80% of the herd sterilized to see an actual population decline if efforts like this where funded by local governments instead of just encouraging people to shoot the problem out of existence People wills shoot the problem out of existence on their own dime. The government will have to pay people to do it. It makes more fiscal sense to offer a number licenses based on animal population and let the people handle it not just for free but while paying the government for the privilege. I prefer my community to make money out of hunting instead of spending money on population control. What’s the difference between killing something to extend your own existence if you’re starving vs killing something to extend your existence if you’re just hungry? What about my survival justifies killing something else? What then removes that justification based on the eminence of my own death? Fundamentally speaking killing and eating something when I’m starving is the same action and has the same result as killing and eating something just because I skipped breakfast. If you think it’s ok to murder an animal because of desperation then the same rules should apply for a person right? Your honor I didn’t intend to kill him but I was out of food and he wouldn’t give me his wallet so. . .” More animals die in industrialized grain harvesting than in hunting. Assuming youre counting rabbits occasionally young deer field rodents frogs snakes newts... And we havent even begun to discuss insects. Youre also ignoring the mass ecological impact of monoculture farming on biodiversity habitat clearing for farmland increases water usage fertilizers... There is also no real rational justification for the idea that farmed animals suffer less than hunted ones. Maybe a cow on a hobby farm has a better time... But the majority of cows are not living that kind of life. it’s universally rude to ask about a strangers sex life Sex is private. It is the ultimate private sector. Unless someone chooses to personally make that portion of their life public via sex work or advertising specifically on a kink/hookup app. By specifically I mean they say ‘open to hookups’ on their bio showing they are immediately ready for a sexually charged question. Without being on a *kink or fetish app* not just a dating app *it’s universally rude to ask about a strangers sex life.* **What prompts this opinion?** It happens so often especially on dating apps or Reddit or in public a man will just ask you a sexual questions completely unprompted. Even in the middle of a completely normal conversation zero flirting. Then they argue ‘it’s subjective’ to ask about a strangers sex life unprompted. That is universally rude! I cannot imagine a single scenario where that could possibly be remotely appropriate please enlighten me. Edit *examples for reference… you’re having a totally normal conversation you could be having with a child because it’s not innocent/no flirting then someone asking* if you’re gay their body count after showing someone a picture that person asking if you’ve had sex there all the way to do you do anal/have you been fisted.” If you are going to ask sexual questions you have to ask their consent first or else it’s often literally sexual harassment. ***I’m talking about someone who has done nothing to prompt a sexual question so not at a swingers clubs etc. just a totally normal interaction.*** EDIT I’ve given out 2 deltas! I’m done! There’s exceptions! how else are you supposed to get to know the other folks at the orgy? you could talk about the weather and make the its raining men joke but then youre already back to the topic of sex. The sole scenario I think its somewhat reasonable that you specifically mentioned is especially on dating apps I could see asking someone you met on a dating app with the prospective of dating basic questions about their sex life what kind of frequency expectations they have broad strokes what theyre into etc to try and find out if youre compatible in that way. I personally wouldnt but I could see how some people would feel that was a very important thing to know before expending more energy pursuing someone in what would ultimately be a noncompatible relationship. Could you provide any real examples? It is very hard to discuss as different people have different ideas about sex life. If the circumstances for the interaction revolve around the prospect of entering each others private life then the question is no longer unprompted or rude. Many people are into a blind hookup” culture which necessitates asking about STDs/STIs sexual orientation preferences previous partners etc. this is a reality that exists outside of swingers clubs parties etc. What if were at a swingers party? Or an orgy? Then they argue ‘it’s subjective’ to ask about a strangers sex life unprompted. I mean it is subjective since its a matter of peoples opinion. I cannot imagine a single scenario where that could possibly be remotely appropriate A lack of imagination is not proof It is not a universal thing. This simply depends on cultural norms. Different cultures are open about sexuality. Suggest reading about Mangaia cultural attitudes towards sex. It seems to be somewhat of a sport openly discussed In a setting where you’re just making small talks with someone then yeah it’s pretty rude but among friends with someone you know well it’s fine depending on your relationship. Sex is private. Not always. What is private or rude is determined by social norms and not all societies are the same. For example imagine you are a swinger and join a big group of likeminded strangers on a cruise ship or something. Asking a stranger about their sex life in this community is perfectly normal. Without being on a *kink or fetish app* not just a dating app *it’s universally rude to ask about a strangers sex life.* You cant have something that is universally true with exceptions. If there are contexts where asking strangers about their sex life is acceptable then it cant be universally true that it is unacceptable. This is basic logic. It happens so often especially on dating apps or Reddit or in public a man will just ask you a sexual questions completely unprompted. If you are advertising that you are interested in a romantic relationship that typically is understood to mean a sexual relationship. While there are certainly tactful and less tactful methods of approaching the topic being in a dating app is sort of opening yourself to such questions. Edit Also how do you post both Why do guys always have to take it too far? and then the same day When do you become comfortable with sex in a relationship? Isnt it your premise that such a question is universally rude? I propose that what is really going on is you are giving mixed signals and have double standards. How do you define stranger? I think your point about this is quite subjective. You think it’s rude to ask questions about a stranger’s sex life which is somewhat understandable but who determines who is a stranger or not? But when do you ask those questions especially in a dating sense that you bring up? Do you think they are a stranger when you are actively trying to date each other? Maybe on the first date? What about the 2nd or 3rd date? If the other person is ready for that conversation but you aren’t are they rude? It seems you are trying to draw an arbitrary line for a very specific circumstance that will be subjective and largely different between each person date situation etc. How can you make this a universal given that? Isn’t ‘rude’ also just subjective? What is rude in one culture may have the opposite effect in another. Again how can you make this universal rude determination? Universally is a very strong word. Its almost impossible to say anything applies universally particularly with regard to behavior or ethics. Which brings us to the next bit manners and etiquette are subjective and change at minimum between societies and time periods and more realistically it varies even by smaller groups and contexts. Not to put too fine a point on it but dating apps not hookup apps but normal dating ones are one of the situations where the etiquette around sexual topics is somewhat different because attitudes regarding sex and sexual preferences of many sorts can be key components of selecting the appropriate dating partner. Then if we look at the dont ask about it approach that pretty easily leads to more negative outcomes than just asking would because it leaves room for mistaken assumptions and gossip. And finally what bad thing happens if a stranger asks you about your sex life? Obviously you personally have some level of discomfort at being the subject of those questions but where is that discomfort coming from? Could the other person reasonably know the question would cause that discomfort? Which probably proves the point in a nutshell because the reason a person might ask about a strangers sex life in the context of a dating app or other social situation is because they are interested in having sex with that person. If they knew the question universally caused discomfort that would torpedo their chances and thus they wouldnt ask. That means the discomfort is not universal and thus the rudeness is not universal either. Or if you want to ignore all that and go with the tldr You or anyone here can ask me whatever they like about my sex life and I will not find it rude or discomforting. That was true both before and after I wrote this paragraph. That means its not universally rude. [deleted] God as defined by abrahamic religions is just a contradictory mess **This post was NOT created to offend anybody.** Can i ask you how you rationalise the existence of a being that is omniscient had the idea of creating adolf hitler saw that hitler would go to hell if created chose to create hitler knowing that hitler would go to hell and then happily sent hitler to hell when his time arrived telling hitler that the blame was all on him despite the fact that he was the one who used his omnipotence” to create a being that would go to hell? Of course all of this assumes hitler went to hell but im really just talking about any single individual who ends up in hell or destroyed by God as i understand some christians dont believe in hell The only replies i’ve heard to this are things along the lines of your free will is responsible for your destiny not God. But this just undermines the foreknowledge Gods omniscience gives him. If i hold a ball over a river and release it then destroy the ball on the grounds that it chose to get wet how is that any different from what most theistic religions are suggesting today? Perhaps this would fly if we could just assume God were a wicked person by nature but these religions define God as a fundamentally fair loving benevolent merciful god who somehow still allows souls to suffer in hell for all eternity despite the fact that he orchestrated it all. I did my research and found out that there are multiple theological stances that try to reconcile our free will and reward/punishment with Gods omni qualities but they never seem to be able to pair True Omniscience and True Omnipotence together and also always just sound like extreme speculation youd hear from a star wars fan trying to explain what COULD be. Creating a huge and complex framework from very little to no evidence in the original text that supports said framework makes it feel like im just looking at writers desperately trying to fix plotholes somebody else created. Im not trying to mock anybodys belief system this is something that genuinely disturbs me but wont be answered in real life because everyone around me will say you are listening to the devil” when i ask them about it. I say this as somebody who has been raised by dogmatic west african christianity that immediately disparages any sort of inquisition as the voice of satan. And after living my whole life convinced that this God definitely existed and gave its world this meaning these new perspectives are threatening to shatter all of that. Please Change my View This is gonna go way beyond what reddit can do for you. The question you are asking is known in philosophy as the problem of evil. Thousands of philosophers have debated this over millenia. There are many possible solutions but whether you will find any of them acceptable really just depends on you. Your best bet is to go research this find some philosophers who seem interesting and start reading. But ultimately I would say that many of the solutions are not contradictory messes just not necessarily a solution you like. As a quick example take the simple solution that God is simply beyond your understanding. If you were a literal ant and you walked onto a book of Shakespeare youd have no idea what words are or stories or books or basically any concept contained within. Understanding who Shakespeare is or why he did what he did or even what he actually did just isnt feasible for an ant. If God truly exists and is omnipotent omniscient and omnibenevolent we would expect that he would act in ways that dont make sense to us. If he always made sense to us that would be weird. Heck if he regularly made sense to us that would be odd. Most people dont like that solution since it doesnt feel very satisfying. But its a logical coherent argument. ETA Im not directly advocating this argument or its conclusion. Its an example. Im not interested in debating it. So your main problem with the attributes of god is that you cant understand the pre destination and decree aspect. Basically in Islam its explained that your life death parents gender and birth are all already written by Allah. And these things are decided. However these things can change. And thats through prayer. Thats why miracles exist. Through prayer. You can change your own destiny by prayer. As for the earlier example. In Islam its clear that Allah almighty already knows your entire life and how it will play out. But Allah doesnt interfere himself. Not because he cant. Because he has given us free will. Yes our life is already written. But the point here is that you dont know what is written and whats not. So you still are responsible for your own life. Yes its already determined. But the key thing here is that its already known by god. And you in the present are still living it. Your choices matter. Your life matters. For example hell my conversation with you can very much be written lmao. Now I have the option to reply to you. I can choose to do and not to do so. When I began writing this I intended to Post this. And if I do then its a part of destiny. And what if I dont? Well I dont know whats written in my life. So it is very well that I didnt intend to post this. Its confusing but still the Quran outright said that humans can never understand the concept of God no matter how hard we can try. We can never grasp his true nature. For one thing Christians Jews and Muslims all view Abraham very differently. You could create an AI friend— it’s easy. You can program it to obey your every whim and never question you. Or you could have an actual human child who could reject and disobey you or could choose to actually love you and who will surprise you and create things you never imagined. God made both jellyfish in the first camp and humans. Im just trying to understand your perspective here why is free will not possible even if a God can see what you will do? A teacher might know the student will fail and the student does fail but the teacher didnt make them fail. Does knowledge of the future necessarily prove that it is set? One thing Ill point out is that Christianity is generally rationalistic. That is to say it is very much assumed that God is rational and works in a logical manner and that his creation is logically consistent and therefore can be studied and understood hence science but thats besides the point. Another question asked about Gods omnipotence is can God create a rock so heavy that even he couldnt lift it? This sort of proposed Paradox can be argued to be playing with words and definitions and be nonsensical rather than a real question. Omnipotence means God can do everything but somethings are not real things for God to be doing. We can construct sentences with words that arent logical realities such as More people have gone to Germany than I have. which may seem like it would mean something at a glance but it really doesnt. Its incoherent. For something to be a real/potential thing it must be something that is logically coherent. From here we get to things like the problem of evil. I mean why would God create cancer? But if God did create our universe and all its laws of physics and create this world where everything seems to be able to run independently without his direct intervention and we exist and can ourselves do things might it not be that cancer is just an inevitability? All organisms seem to develop cancers cells just do occasionally become damaged and get out of control. But think about what it might take for them to never be damaged. What if cells never made errors when copying? Well that would imply no mutations which would imply no evolution. It would be logically inconsistent to have one without the other. What if cells werent impacted by things like radiation? Well again the radiation and the causing of chemical reactions by them are just a consequence of the laws of physics in general youd have to alter all of reality. Can there be any logically coherent selfsustaining system which has no downsides at all? Is not any part or rule of this sandbox that is necessary or good also inevitably going to have consequences that might not be? Can we have free will and yet have no one ever make a choice that is evil? One might say the things you ask of God are what is contradictory. Lets first address a couple of things. Its a common mistake to think hell is a place. Hell is not a place but rather the distance one deliberately puts themselves and God. When the soul passes over they go to the place called land of the dead. Its a waste land. But due to translation errors the English word they used is helheim. Over time it got shortened to be Hell. In the center of the wasteland is a city where heaven is. But God doesnt send people to hell. People through their own actions put distance between themselves and God because they dont want to be held accountable for their sins. Also predestination is a common misconception. You cant have sin and predestination. What would be the point of sin if you were predetermined to do so. Predestination doesnt exist. Free will does exist and its because free will exists that sin has meaning. When we sin its because we choose to. Some people may argue that we may not have the choice but they are incorrect. We can choose to do what is easy and what is right. Unfortunately life conditions us so sometimes we cant see that. For example you chose Hitler as an example. God created life but he did not create people for predetermined roles. Unfortunately this is the result of living in a fallen world. Life wears us down and people choose bad choices. Hitler and others made terrible choices because they wanted to. The reason God doesnt stop them is because of free will. Also what would be the point of free will if God was going to police us for every bad choice we were making. I believe you want a god that polices evil. But God doesnt want that. He wants his greatest creation to follow the path he sent to be perfect beings. [removed] It makes no sense to talk about Hitler being created. Hes voted into power by a godless people. When you abandon Gods ways terrible things happen. In the leftist/communist/atheist mind they cant imagine a God that would give perks a choice because they themselves would simply rule by force because they know best. Gods love is so deep that he wants us to find our own way and choose Him. Thats the love of a father. The love of our Father. You think the a world without Hitler is better than a world with Hitler. This is not excusing the unimaginable atrocity of the Holocaust but one could imagine a genocide ten times or a thousand times larger. How do you know that a genocide of 6 million wasn’t the only way to prevent a genocide of 6 billion later on? You might also believe that there *must* be a better way to prevent the worse genocide. However it’s impossible to know unless you’re omnipotent. One view in Christianity specifically is that God isn’t completely omnipotent because of the Devil. The evil comes from Satan not God directly look at the book of Job for an example. But then given that evil exists God has overcome it and Jesus who is God has died and sacrificed himself God does understand the problem unlike any other religion. I wondt engage with you main question but i would urge you to think about Hitler and human development in general. Hitler wasnt some one in a trillion wasnt born different. He was pretty average actually. Hitler developed. All people mainly developed there are very few traits where its just oh they are born that way Most people develope traits based on their sorroundings and so did Hitler. He wasnt born evil. A number of choices and Influenced made hin to become the evil mess He was. Dont think about how much better you are than Hitler think about how you can become the opposite of Hitler. I used to hold a similar view but I dont anymore. Heres what changed it for me. So yes pure omnipotence in the most liberal sense of the word is selfcontradictory. Can God create a stone so heavy that he cant lift it? If no theres something he cant do that being creating the stone. If yes theres something he cant do that being lifting the stone. QED. I think there are two possible objections to this God can do contradictory things God can create a stone so heavy he cannot lift it. He can also just lift it anyway. This seems weird but were talking about the divine creator of the universe here so obviously he can do things that dont make sense to humans. Contradictions are not things God could make a triangle the size of the universe but he couldnt create a triangle with five sides because by definition that which has five sides is not a triangle. This trivially seems like a thing that God cant do but contradictory things are meaningless. We may as well say that God is not omnipotent because he cant florp wibble foo. Thats not a thing that can be done because its not a meaningful thing because its incoherent. On omniscience a friend of mine explained Gods omniscience as that God *can* know anything not that he *does* know everything. If God does know everything then that is incompatible with free will since if God knows which word I will end this sentence with before I finished writing it then I have no freedom to choose a different velociraptor. But if God *can* choose to know what I say before I say it but in practice doesnt God is still omniscient and I am still free. If we have an extremely broad definition of words like omniscience and omnipotence then it does seem to be a paradox but theologians have constructed models of how these things could work which still very much feel like omnipotence and omniscience but are not contradictory. Why do you believe God is both omnipotent and omniscient? In the Bible it talks about God sending out angels to find out what is going on. Even in the Lords Prayer it talks about how Gods will not done on earth but they pray that Gods will might be done on earth as it is currently in heaven. CS Lewis one of the greatest Christian apologists wrote an entire science fiction trilogy positing that Earth is basically a rogue planet ruled by Satan while all the other planets are still in their idyllic Eden state because only humans ate the apple and fell. Being ruled by Satan it is a silent planet none of the other planets communicate with it in any way. This was particularly interesting to me because its basically an answer to the Fermi Paradox long before the paradox was ever formally stated. I think lots of Christians believe Gods will isnt being done on earth. I mean there are entire books talking about how Satan rules earth and a big great last battle will be fought during which Satans rule will be broken. See the book of Revelations. But even for those who think he is both omniscient and omnipotent the concept of free will pretty easily answers the apparent contradiction. God creates people and then gives them the free will to choose good or evil. I dont see much point in trying to say things like Well if God knew before hand that they would do xyz because thats basically trying to rationalize the thoughts of people bound in time and apply them to a being unbound in time which is in my opinion impossible. Some people act like God is just like us a being locked in time moving forward but one who happens to know everything in advance. But what if in fact he is a being to whom everything is happening all at once? Also why are you upset that God punishes people who choose evil by sending them to Hell when he knew ahead of time they would do so but you arent upset at God rewarding people who choose evil by sending them to Heaven even though he knew ahead of time they would do so. Arent both the same scenario logically speaking? TLDR Saying How can God be a loving God if he lets his creations make bad choices is no different than saying How can a loving parent give their children the freedom to make bad choices. God creates human beings and then gives us free will. Thus is it the fault of God giving us free will? Or the fault of us humans choosing to do evil and abide by what Satan wants us to do. This life is a test whether or not we worship God almighty or fall into Satans trap. If you want justice the day of judgement will come and everyone will be accounted for. Evil Muslims will go to hell for many many years for their sins. Everyone will pay what they owed. You are speaking of the problem of evil. It is one of the major theological issues. However I think the opposite is more problematic. I think you are also coming at this from the wrong angle. GOD is not an object in the world amongst other objects. GOD is the transcendental ground upon which we as finite persons can relate to Existence. As such it is not a mere matter of logical coherencewhich it has but it is more fundamental. Consider for example how you can even do logic. What is the relation between a concerete finite spatiotemporal evolved apes relation to universal validity symbolic reality? But we CAN do logic we can uphold universality validity coherence and know this. So the question is what is the relation between the finite person and the universal the objective? Religion comes from this encounter which is marked with mystery and awe and theism posits that this is so because at the ground of the mystery and the awe there is Divine Personhood that created out of free love persons. So at the ground of each human is the Divine both as foundation and orientation. That is why we as humans can engage in logic in thinking in knowing in feeling in ethics and while at the same time we can also fall short of it. If we remove this then the ground of reality becomes impersonal and so we are by principle barred from access to it. Because we are finite and we are persons. And the ground of reality is absolute and impersonal. That would render knowledge impossible ethics a myth logic local and hence our very lives absurd. Not in the romantic Camusian sense in the cosmic horror kind of way. But it is clear we do not live in such an ungrounded reality but it is also true that our reality is not a full home for us. We are at odds with it but we are grounded in it. This middle ground is what in the religious consciousness is to live in a fallen communion with Existence and GOD is the horizon beyond this fallenness through we can orient ourselves in logical epistemic moral aesthetic and personal grounds that render our existence not a nihilistic absolute. And yes within this falllenness the reality of evil as a finite phenomena is something through which we try to orient. Within theism our moral existential predicament becomes a mystery and a problemwhich can be logically solved but persists in an experiential sense as an affront to our own natures as if we were made for goodness and perfection without theism our existence as such becomes an absurdity. Thought devours thought rendering all propositions fictions all possibility an impossibility all reality a fiction including the moral reality which occupies us now. Omniscient has NOTHING to do with knowing the future. The future isnt anything. It doesnt exist it hasnt happened and thus isnt even a concept of knowledge. All knowing refers to all there is to know. Simply all present all informed. God exists outside of time not within the time allowed to manipulate it and travel into the future to see things that havent occured yet and then come back to the present to act on it. Youre literally speaking of the paradox of time travel itself not omniscience. Omnipotent. God doesnt create people who will go to hell. He creates entities with **the potential** to go to hell. Just as Satan himself rebelled against him. To be all powerful doesnt mean you need to control everything. Just as we have potential so does God. But our power isnt defined by needing to act on something. Hell is only suffering from the framework of God. You suffer in hell simply not heaven because you arent spending eternity with God. And that being away from God is described within the religion as a horrible place. Just as people call casinos bars and strip clubs horrible places where people suffer. Why do you think a non believer would feel like they were actually suffering? How do you imagine this sufgering in an afterlife without physical forms the brain chemistry that exists only in our human physical form? [removed] I agree with you but I also think your example is not quite accurate and your understanding of the belief in what God knows and allows relative to the religions teachings is imperfect. The belief is that God is omnipotent and omniscient yes but that he gave humans free will. That is within the original story of the Bible that Adam and Eve disobeyed him and that humanity has been punished collectively with suffering ever since. That sin the original sin imbued free will on the humans and it is up to us to follow Gods will or not. He knows if you do or not which is his omniscience. He sees you when youre sleeping he knows when youre awake. Hes effin Santa Clause. In your example youd have to give the ball a choice whether or not to get wet. It does not as it must follow the laws of gravity and therefore gets wet. Humans have the choice to follow Gods commandments or laws or not and suffer those consequences the same as any parent and child relationship. Its the difference between telling your child not to eat the cookie and getting upset with them when they do and telling your child not to eat the cookie while forcing it down his throat. The true omniscience of knowing all that ever was is and ever could be is never once shown to be true in the Bible as there are from the beginning choices given choices made and consequences suffered. God may know all possible results but gives humans the free will to choose the path. Much like a choose your own adventure book. The author knows all possible outcomes but its up to you to reach it. Similarly with the omnipotence. I have the power to do and change and stop a lot of things that I dont even mess with for various reasons. Having the power to do things is very different from using the power to do things. There really isnt a contradiction there because after the fall of man God never promised to make things perfect on Earth again. Really you need to see the relationship as a parent child relationship. God is considered graceful and merciful because if you repent and try to do what youre supposed to there are avenues for eternal reward. If you dont those avenues close off and the alternative is dire. Same with a good parent and their kids. If the kid does as theyre expected and remains respectful and apologizes when theyve done wrong the relationship will have rocky moments but will still be relatively wholesome. If the child fully rebels and does not uphold those ideals they likely wont inherit the keys to the kingdom so to speak. A parent can also do all they can to ensure that their children are more like the former example but nothing really stops the kid from being an example of the latter. The difference between a human parent and God would be the omnipotence but ultimately God never showed a willingness to use it to make humans behave as he commands instead putting it on the humans to do so. You also have to understand that the Abrahamic God even if the one true god is a diety explained by a cobbled together mess of stories written by several different people over hundreds if not thousands of years many of which arent even included in the Torah Bible or Quran as we know them. The stories are all mostly fables and thus Gods will and priorities seem to shift rapidly if read in short time and taken literally. That is why the theological philosophy and study are done on a book that we should have figured out by now if taken as a literal historical document and transcribed directly from God. Its not and it cant be even if God is real as he has always spoken through prophets even within the texts. Even human creators of entertainment pieces cannot keep their show bible together accurately. Look at any popular entertainment franchise subreddit. Youll see all kinds of posts about plot holes and plot armor and terrible writing. I am a fan of Doctor Who. It first aired 62 years ago and been written and run by many different people. The basic lore is constant Alien in a box that is bigger on the inside and travels through time and space. The whole canon is an absolute disaster and ever evolving. The Doctor was human at first then a Time Lord then the Last Time Lord then not a Time Lord at all but something else entirely then he had family then he didnt have real family then he was the most important of Time Lords then his home planet was destroyed except wait it wasnt actually but then it was again. The same thing happened to the Abrahamic religions even within branches of the three major ones there is debate because we know the books were written by imperfect people. You wont ever get an answer to your questions that satisfys your sense of logic. Religion is about faith not logic. Humans don’t goto Heaven or Hell we goto Sheol. A lot of translations put it as Hell” when it should just be Sheol/netherworld. We have free will because of the Evil Inclination. If there was no Evil Inclination we’d follow the Bible to a T without question. Have you ever heard of ? It’s basically the idea that God the Divine etc. are beyond human understanding so they can only be approached e.g. described by negation. As Maimonides — a rabbi philosopher and doctor *inter alia* as well as one of the most influential and important Jewish figures in history — said in his book *Guide for the Perplexed* 158 from the Wikipedia article linked above Gods existence is absolute and it includes no composition and we comprehend only the fact that He exists not His essence. Consequently it is a false assumption to hold that He has any positive [...] still less has He accidents מקרה [my addition better translated imo as happenstance”] which could be described by an attribute. Hence it is clear that He has no positive attribute however the negative attributes are necessary to direct the mind to the truths which we must believe [...] When we say of this being that it exists we mean that its nonexistence is impossible it is living — it is not dead [...] it is the first — its existence is not due to any cause it has power wisdom and will — it is not feeble or ignorant He is One — there are not more Gods than one [...] Every attribute predicated of God denotes either the quality of an action or when the attribute is intended to convey some idea of the Divine Being itself — and not of His actions — the negation of the opposite. If one approaches God apophatically the contradictions between what you described and God’s attributes become null because God can’t be said to have any true positive attributes. The only replies i’ve heard to this are things along the lines of your free will is responsible for your destiny not God. But this just undermines the foreknowledge Gods omniscience gives him. If i hold a ball over a river and release it then destroy the ball on the grounds that it chose to get wet how is that any different You dont understand what is meant by the concept of free will as your analogy is not an example of free will. Free will is the idea that agents can freely choose their actions free of external constraints and thus bear the moral responsibility of those actions. Can i ask you how you rationalise the existence of a being that is omniscient had the idea of creating adolf hitler saw that hitler would go to hell if created chose to create hitler knowing that hitler would go to hell and then happily sent hitler to hell when his time arrived telling hitler that the blame was all on him despite the fact that he was the one who used his omnipotence” to create a being that would go to hell? I dont see any contradictions here. 1 God creates a man named adolf hitler. Thats fine. 2 God gives Adolf Hitler free will. Thats fine unless you believe free will doesnt exist or giving people free will is inherently evil 3 Adolf Hitler uses his free will to freely choose to do devil. Thats wrong but thats Adolf Hitlers moral choice not Gods 4 God punishes Adolf Hitler by sending him to hell. This is a requirement for justice so that seems fine. Your complaint seems to be God didnt use his powers to see that Adolf Hitler would make the wrong choices and act to prevent it. This may be true but its not clear that it is an example of injustice. Human moral codes explicitly recognize that it is not an example of injustice if you dont act to prevent another from doing wrong. You seem to think this principle would apply to an omnipotent and omniscient being but thats based purely on your own imagination and you must necessarily have a flawed and incomplete idea of what an omnipotent and omniscient being would be like. We all do. Youve invented a moral code for such a being based on incomplete understanding and applied it to said being then complained when said being doesnt appear to live up to it. Thats fine but its not an example of contradiction within Christianity. If youre trying to understand *why* an omnipotent and omniscient being wouldnt choose to act in such cases despite having no moral obligation to we should consider the analogy laid out of a father to their children. A human father would choose to at some point grand their child enough independence and autonomy to make their own choices some of which must necessarily end up being wrong or causing grief. They would do this while still loving the child and wanting the best for them perhaps even while having the ability to prevent such choices. Allowing your child the freedom to fail is an essential part of their growth as they are transitioning from child to adult. One way I have always thought about this is that God wanted us to choose to love Him. He could have made us be basically slaves with no free will and forced us to worship Him endlessly but obviously he did not want that to happen. Take a real world example. Most would think a good parent should allow their kids to live their lives a bit experiment make mistakes and eventually grow up and make decisions for themselves. Think how much love and respect the child would usually have for his parents in this situation. It would be real genuine and deep. Now another option is to force a child to do everything you want a say. And even if these things are right and moral the child would likely not feel real and genuine love for their parents. We often describe children who were controlled like this abused and they never want to see their parents again. Gos isn’t cruel for creating children who do evil things since they are able to choose for themselves. God is also far more forgiving of our sins and mistakes than any human. God sent his Son to right the wrongs of all of humanity and take the punishment that we all deserve for our wrongdoings. All we need to do to receive this scandalous grace is simply believe that his Son Jesus Christ came down as God and as Man to live a life we never could. Once we believe that and give our lives to Christ and desire to know and love God we are saved. God even described Himself as a jealous God. The God of the universe gets jealous of things that take your love and attention away from Him when they aren’t of Him sin. To me this makes it impossible to find God anything but infinitely and impossibly good and generous. To end though there is nothing I can ever say or do to make you believe me or God for that matter. The only one with the power to give you knowledge or make you believe is God himself. All you need to do is pursue Him. Interesting topic but at this very time I have other things to do. However I would like to have time for this debate. You have given this some deep thought. I like that. Give me some time and I want to reply back. I agree with you omniscience and omnipotence in creation necessitates God’s responsibility for everything and no value in trying to objectively judge humanity. Heck even without those things trying to judge humanity is inevitably based on situational factors that make such judgements unreliable there is a theoretical world where Germany never went to war Hitler attended a university where he was taught the value of liberal values and became one of the most convincing human rights advocates is it fair to blame him for the lack of such opportunities which resulted from a war he had no power over?. The scale is never equal so how can judgment be fair? I am a Christian minister and I believe the only possible understanding of God that makes any sense is universal salvation” or the belief that all people go to Heaven”. This is actually a growing theory as scholars have realized that a popular verse generally translated as saved by faith in Jesus” is more accurately saved by the faith of Jesus” implying that there is nothing that needs to or can be done to acquire salvation all have been saved” by something beyond them. I largely look at the world as a crucible meant to teach us something that living in paradise could not in paradise opportunities for growth are inherently limited as well as giving us a baseline reality to compare paradise to so that it is actually appreciated/enjoyed. There is no failing the test” but it is still a worthwhile experience. Each of the three Abrahamic religions have different understandings of the nature of God reality and the afterlife. While there is a lot in common the differences can have significant consequences. For example Christianity believes that God has three components/parts/aspects known as the trinity and that one of those aspects was born as a human man named Jesus who was killed and resurrected for a divine purpose. As a result you need to have a theology that incorporates and justifies that belief into a worldview. In contrast islam completely rejects that framing of a trinity or the need for God to be born and sacrificed. So the two have very different understandings of God even though both religions believe in or at least accept the teachings of Jesus and the Bible. Even within a single religion there can be very different interpretations. For example a small number of Islamic scholars believed that Hell is a temporary state that *everyone* will eventually be admitted to heaven or at least released from suffering. At the least most Islamic scholars believe that pious Muslims who nevertheless erred in life enough to wind up in Hell will eventually be released and admitted to Heaven. And that conception has consequences. You seem to be confused about the basic setup of the world according to these religions. Yes humans are created as beings with free will. God generally does not interfere in current human affairs and doesnt reward/punish people based on whether theyre good or not at least not in this world through physical life events. In fact the Bible mentions this quite explicitly through quotes like When the sentence for a crime is not quickly carried out peoples hearts are filled with schemes to do wrong. This world in our current form isnt here so you can enjoy it and be happy. Its a battlefield. And whatever you do good or bad youll die in the end and be eventually forgotten. Its the one way in which we are all truly equal. And that is by design. If everyone who did bad things got cancer or got struck by a lightning and if everyone who did good won lotteries and drove around in Rolls Royces the entire population of Earth would do good for all the wrong reasons. But thats not what God wants. He doesnt need servants who will physically carry out tasks for him he cares about the human heart and that wont show its true face with a carrot and a stick but exactly by letting it run wild in a world seemingly devoid of consequences. That might seem cruel and unfair and its easy to say why doesnt God just fix things? but its necessary for growth. In the same way a baby learning how to walk if it was more aware of its surroundings could say Why is my father letting me struggle with this and letting me fall and risk injury when I know he can just carry me across where I need to be?. But the father actually understands why its necessary and why carrying the baby every time would actually do it more harm. Thats also why the concept of Judgement Day exists thats the point where he actually will interfere and where there will be true justice. Until then youre expecting something that was never even promised. The way I see it God allows everything to happen for a reason. We may not understand why things happen the way they do but we just need to trust His plan and have faith in Him. I know its hard to do so but it can be done. Perhaps the whole Hitler thing for example was used as a tool to get the Jews to go back to their homeland. If I understand correctly before they restablished Israel in 1948 most Jewish people were in Europe and Eastern Europe. By allowing the Nazis to do what they did the Jewish people were convinced into going back into their own land that God wants for them to be in. Im sure there are other reasons as well for example if the WW2 didnt happen the atom bomb may have never been invented. If the nuke wasnt invented we may have seen far more destructive wars waged in the 20th century and beyond. For all the bad things that nuclear weapons bring they have worked as a way to keep bigger countries from outright fighting each other. God commonly uses bad situations to bring about a better good and to demonstrate His ultimate power and mercy to us. If God had not allowed Daniel to be thrown into the lions den and Shadrach Meshach and Abednego to be thrown in the furnace we would not have these examples of how He saves from perilous situations. If the Jews were never enslaved in Egypt than the miracles in Exodus would not have taken place. If Jesus wasnt crucified no one would be free of sin and death. God turns bad into good all the time. Why would god create the world at all then? I mean the world is full of suffering? Why bother what’s the point? Those are questions that no religion will claim to know. In Judaism at least bad things do happens and are a part of a grand design. God knows what will happen and what everyone decides to do but god knowing what one will choose doesn’t make it any less that person’s choice as free will” is inherently a human concept and to apply that to the infinite makes no sense. Also hell in Judaism isn’t the Christian hell of eternal damnation but that’s a story for another time Omnipotence means power to do all not power to do anything I can put into words in natural language. The distinction is important because humans can phrase things in natural language that are logically impossible phrases like a square circle or a married bachelor. Saying God can create in front of one these phrases doesnt make it any less of a logical impossibility by its own internal definitions. Most serious theologians dont think God can do logically impossible things and note that this isnt a limit on his power because they arent things at all in any possible world. As C.S. Lewis pithily put it Nonsense the remains nonsense even when we talk it about God. The same should apply to omniscience then it would be the ability to know all i.e. to know anything that is logically possible for God to know. This is where you get into different philosophical theories of time. If you are a Btheorist you think time isnt really tensed and that past present and future all exist concurrently it just depends on ones perspective. If thats true God should know all future outcomes because God exists outside of the block of time. However it also follows that God created the whole block in an instant i.e. he created the Big Bang the dinosaurs Adolf Hitler and Ghandi in the same instant. So it doesnt really work the way youve described it he didnt see what Hitler would do and create him he just created this whole story at once. Wherever it is leading this is how it apparently has to get there. If youre an Atheorist about time though you believe that time *is* did a mentally tensed i.e. that the future just doesnt exist. If thats true God can *predict* the future based on a huge amount of past and present evidence but God cant actually *see* the future because thats logically impossible. Under this view human free will is an act of God giving power to humans to do things he might not be able to predict as free will would allow humans to act beyond the mechanistic limitations of nonsapient matter. So God may not always know what humans will choose in advance. This view is also called Open Theism and several theologians hold it. It still posits that God is omniscient as God knows all that is logically possible to know—it just posits that fewer things are logically possible to know than one might assume. By the way I do think it matters to your point whether one believes in Hell in the traditional sense or not. Eternal conscious torment especially if it is the fate of most humans may make either or both of the possible worlds Ive sketched out above seem like theyre not worth any eventual outcome. I dont know if I can substantiate that view rationally but I am sympathetic to it. As it happens Im not and have never been a Christian so thats never really been an issue for me. But my point is that when you take that off the table there are reasonable answers to your questions. Gonna throw my 2 cents into the ring. Just because he can doesnt mean he will.There is a reason he only does a few prophicies and that he doesnt do it any more. He only chose to set in stone a few broad strokes of human existance. Writing all of reality from the start goes against the reason he made people in the first place. He give everyone free will becuase he wanted people to listen to him out of lovenot by destiny or programmed obediance. I mean the bible is a dualistic description of the same thing other religions like Hinduism talks about from a non dualistic framework. God = Brahman sin = karma hell = maya. Through a dualistic perspective your separate from god and things are defined through their opposites. Good/bad god/devil ying/yang etc. your not separate from god though and Jesus actually did teach this but the dualistic framework was useful for the understanding of the time. Think of it like this… God creates the heavens and the earth creates souls souls incarnate and forget their nature. The reason for incarnation is growth and the soul may set it up so it experiences specific events to learn. These are typically called soul contracts by spiritualists. Now suffering is meant to be a teacher. Your born with original sin because your incarnation needs to wake up in order to fully complete what it wants. Thing is this isn’t going to be the case if everything is awesome all the time because you’ll never look inward to truly know yourself and you’ll get caught up in the physical world. If you don’t know yourself your free will is kind of limited because your subconscious drives the majority of your life. You adopt others beliefs others ideas others limitations. You never really know what you want from life. It’s not done to you it’s done for you. If you don’t learn your lesson you will keep attracting it into your experience. Now through a dualistic description you would see that suffering is bad because it sucks ballsbut if you do the work you will feel differently about it but the truth is that it’s done for you and done in love so you can eventually realise how reality operates and become a co creator of your own reality and you can live your best life. The universe does this through your thoughts and emotions. So if your in a negative headspace and emotional space you will see the world in a negative light. This attracts more negativity and creates more suffering like a feedback loop until you change your mindset. Like attracts like… Now in the case of Hitler what you have is someone being born into a world that doesn’t understand self reflection but is pretty technologically advanced. Because people don’t self reflect they project. Because we’ve forgotten the value of self reflection and the wisdom in these teachings we don’t realise that everything we hate about others is part of us and by denying it and judging it we’re denying and judging part of ourselves. Because reality is ultimately non dualistic every single person is a unique perspective of god itself. We’re all the same thing that’s forgot what it was and basically mock the idea that there is a god even though we are it. This isn’t a great self care philosophy and because we project onto reality because of the lack of self inquiry we see the issue as being everywhere else instead of within us. Basically what happens is this negativity builds until it reaches a breaking point and pressure needs to be released And thus we have the current state of the world… All religions are just a different description of the same thing. Because that thing is impossible to define in a single way all the descriptions are slightly different but they all are pointing towards the same thing just filtered through the culture and understanding of the time. I suggest reading some Gnosticism which is an early Christian sect. A bunch of those descriptions are more useful and interesting than the bible imo. There’s a lot of interesting stuff in the bible but it seems the church omitted all the gospels with knowledge on how to directly experience god instead of blindly believe. Just remember that these are descriptions of how reality operates. At the base of it all it’s just energy and vibration of the one thing that loves unconditionally and from that the entirety of existence has always kept churning. No beginning no end. Just the here and now always. Everything within it goes through cycles. Nothing ever dies it just changes form. There’s no eternal hell. Hell is just not escaping the trap of the illusion with its suffering and being reincarnated until your soul understands how to navigate so it can move on up to the next level. Bible isn’t wrong but it’s just one perspective of the same experience filtered through the culture and understanding of the time. Buddhism Hinduism hermeticism Gnosticism and more all try and describe an aspect of the same thing. You’ll never get a complete description of every aspect of it though. Judaism doesn’t really believe in hell. Judaism also doesn’t believe God is omnibenevolent. It sounds like you are talking only about Christianity. What I know of Islam would lead me to believe that they don’t see God as omnibenevolent as well. We also don’t believe in the devil. No offense but you seem rather ignorant on Judaism. Judaism reconciled the problem of evil thousands of years ago because god is not omnibenevolent so we do not have to assume that he is doing everything out of pure goodness. For example one theory is that choosing good only has value if evil is possible. Is this a benevolent reason to have evil possible? No but god is not omnibenevolent so it just needs to have some sort of rationale behind it. The problem of evil is one of the first things addressed in Christian philosophy. It tries to reconcile a omnipotent omniscient all good God with the existence of evil. Most Christian philosophers amateur and with professional are willing to acknowledge that God is not truly omnipotent. The existence of evil is evident that God cant eradicate evil. With this in mind scripture reading that God is omnipotent is usally read as compared to us. Please note this is super pared down. This was about 6 lectures in my intro to religious philosophy class. The Epicurean paradox is a good place to dig into more but note that doesnt necessarily look at the Abrahamic God. It can still be applied. To address another broad point many religions have many views on Hell. Many dont give concrete answers on what it will look like. Almost everyone agrees it wont be a torture chamber. Speaking to my theology Im LDS Capital H Hell is called outer darkness and is going to be populated by Satan his angels and some uniquely evil beings like Judas Iscariot betrayer of Christ. No clue what that would look like but Hitler isnt nearly evil enough to get there. Those unrepentant of their sins which yeah judge not that ye be not judged but lets just use Hitler as an example because you did are going to end up in the Telestial Kingdom which could be described as hell. This is doctrine but our founder Joseph Smith reportedly claimed that it is so great that if you saw it you would kill yourself to try and get there faster. Modern thought tends to think of it as a lot like our earth but if no one sinned. If everyone was Christlike. Thatd sounds a lot like heaven and we do consider it *a* heaven. This is starting to get a little evangelical and that isnt my intent. But I am trying to empathize that Abrahamic after lives are not a monolith and Im only equipt to elaborate on my own religion. We believe that we have always existed and we always will exist and if we continue to prove ourselves well continue to enter fundamentally higher states. In between these states we know what the next holds. Hitler knew what he was going to do Hitler knew he was going to harming himself more than anyone all of Hitlers victims knew all that too and everyone decided it was worth it. It **does not make it right** it being evil is in fact why this life is probably the highest he will get. But there was consent of a kind. Thats hard to comprehend in a temporal life but it loops back to the problem of evil. I mean this in all seriousness you should read the book Mere Christianity” by CS Lewis It might not change your mind on anything but I think you would really enjoy it from a mental exercise perspective. Its probably because Judaism the Father religion used to be poloytheistic meaning that they had many different gods. When Judaism started to become monotheistic they merged all their gods together. The universe is infinite. To think that humans know everything there is to know about Consciousness and the forms it can or cannot take is mathematically speaking impossible... well its a hodgepodge of books written by different men across vast time periods. youre not supposed to take it literal its supposed to help guide you on your own path. You need more philosophical ideas to start to attempt to resolve these sorts of contradictions IMO. These ideas are sometimes only hinted at in the a Christian Bible and most mainstream Christians would disagree with a lot of them but I dont think any are explicitly denied in the Bible and much of any modern religions dogma is based on consensus interpretation rather than real understanding of what the core messages are. Some of these ideas include Openindividualism all subjects of experience are the same there is only one true subject God. All beings essence is identical to that of God Atman = Brahman in Hinduism terms. God being omnipotent is able to veil their own omnipotence not being able to do so would be a limitation. Under this veil God acts as if theyre not omnipotent not omniscient etc. This veil is necessary for God to experience all of God to make the unrealized infinite potential into realized limited actualities an infinite amount of them. This is known as Maya and Lila in Hinduism. All beings are God with various degrees of veiling. The purpose of reality is for God to experience God progressively unveiling God until Godrealization occurs. Souls pass through countless reincarnations in this process. Hell is not an eternal punishment but a place where souls having incurred negative impressions over the course of their evolution/journey can become cleansed. The idea that a soul is permanently in hell comes from translations not the original texts. Note that I think a lot of confusion in general is due to what is lost in translation. Freewill exists because God allows God to act out in ignorance but theres always a perspective of God that has full knowledge of the ultimate unfolding for all souls hence omniscience is always real and preserved. God sees that this unfoldment is ultimately good and worth it despite the suffering that God experiences due to it. It’s a hard question but this thought experiment might encourage you to see it in a different light https//youtu.be/30Lcnj6wrR8?si=V47pqMHyffhmol Im not a Christian or otherwise religious but I do read a lot on the topic and am very interested in the philosophy. A central tenet is that God is ultimately unknowable by mortal minds so what seems like a contraction to us may just be beyond our comprehension like trying to imagine colors beyond our range of vision. If God is all powerful all knowing and all good it seems impossible that he would create evil or create circumstances he couldnt foresee. But that is superseded by being allpowerful. Whats to say he uses his power to create blindspots for himself so he cant see the results of freechoice? Can good exist without evil to define it? There are many contradictions in the Bible. According to the Documentary Hypothesis the Bible was compiled in stages by different archivists who collected writings from different parts of the Hebrew world so they have slightly different tellings of events. I dont think this discredits anything in the Bible it squares with the events in the Tower of Babel which seems to suggest we shouldnt distract ourselves with comprehending God. Christianity resolves many of its issues with Jesus. The radical forgiveness and promise of eternity mean that any evil on earth is infitely small compared to the goodness of heaven. People who have committed grave evils can repent they are not necessarily set up for hell. I dont believe there is a sin so bad that heaven is barred as long as the sinner accepts they have done evil and asks for forgiveness. There is also a wide range of beliefs about the nature of heaven and hell and different interpretations of Bible passages. The Bible itself really doesnt say much about hell most of societys associations with it come from outside of the Bible. The Jewish answer is that yes God giving humans free will does diminish from his omnipotence however that is exactly what he chose to do although he is completely capable of taking that ability back he just chooses not to most of the time iirc theres only one moment in the Torah when God took away someones free will temporarily. This is different from your ball analogy because the ball works by completely predictable newtonian physics but Judaism rejects your assertion that humans work in that same deterministic way. You can disagree with that assertion but I dont see how its contradictory. As to the question of evil the evil that comes from humans choosing evil is their fault and responsibility but the Hebrew Bible does mention God creating both the good and the bad in nature so you could say the Jewish god is a normal benevolent and not omnibenevolent although that would probably anger some people. Calvinist Christianity however does combine a belief in the abrahamic God and a deterministic view of humanity like the one you hold. They believe that everyone who goes to hell and isnt saved is actually getting exactly what they deserve and the faithful people who go to heaven dont go there because they were good but strictly because God chose to gift them with the gift of believing in this life and being in heaven in the next for his own entirely incomprehensible reasons. That still leaves the question of why create people who are going to harm others but as I am Jewish and not a Calvinist I dont know what they would say about that and I couldnt find anything but that just means you should ask one of them not that there isnt an answer. [removed] Can I ask you how you rationalize the existence I think part of the difficulty here is that any attempt to rationalize a being like the God of the Abrahamic religions is always going to fall short by design. God is supposed to be omnipotent which fundamentally places him outside the bounds of human logic and comprehension. As a result whenever we try to make sense of his actions or intentions using the tools of reason and moral intuition available to us we inevitably run into contradictions or moral absurdities like the scenario you laid out with Hitler or any soul ending up in hell. This is far different than Greek or Roman deities for example where they are a lot more human in motivation. It’s a lot easier to understand why they do things. They’re not really tauted as being all powerful beings that can do whatever they want. They have recognized limitations. The big three don’t operate in these bounds. This is where many theists tend to respond with some variation of God’s ways are not our ways.” And I think that’s key the system isn’t built to be understandable it’s built to transcend understanding. In that context suffering damnation or even divine justice aren’t necessarily things we’re meant to get” in a human sense. We’re asked to trust that there’s a higher reason a divine logic at work even when it looks cruel or nonsensical from our perspective. Why do people always talk about the Abraham religions when they are clearly talking just about Christianity? Yahweh is a figure of contradictions because he represents the fusion of multiple deities and theological systems into a single monotheistic god. Jewish monotheism did not emerge fully formed it evolved gradually from henotheistic or monolatristic Yahwism which itself developed out of the polytheistic religions of Canaan Midian and Ugarit. In these early traditions the ancient Hebrews Canaanites and Israelites worshipped a host of deities including Yahweh El Baal and Asherah Yahweh’s consort. Yahweh himself was merely a god of metallurgy from Edom or Midian later adopted and adapted by the Israelites. As the Kingdom of Israel formed Yahweh gradually absorbed the attributes of El the Canaanite high god known as El Elyon God Most High”. Under kings like David and Solomon Yahweh was elevated to the status of national deity and the worship of other gods was actively suppressed. Aspects of these suppressed deities like Baal’s storm power or El’s fatherly rulership were incorporated into Yahweh’s character. This theological evolution explains Yahweh’s dramatic transformation from a fiery tempestuous tribal wargod in the most ancient Hebrew texts to a universal creator moral judge and king of heaven in later scriptures and finally to a compassionate paternal figure in Christian theology. Even Jesus Christ can be seen as a synthesis of traditions combining the Canaanite idea of divine sons of El with Hellenistic divine man” archetypes resulting in a literalized incarnate Son of God. Its also important to note that the books of the Bible were not actually written in whole or in canonical chronological order. Because later theological developments like Yahweh’s role as universal creator or moral judge seemingly appear early in the Bible its easy to miss that these ideas actually developed much later. Without reading the texts in their true anthropological context the composite selfcontradictory nature of Yahweh’s identity can appear seamless rather than layered and historically constructed. Yeah you’re not crazy for thinking all that sounds off. A lot of it is a mess and most people just don’t admit it because they’re scared of what happens if they stop pretending it makes perfect sense. The version of God you’re describing the allknowing allpowerful allloving being who still greenlights infinite torment is a theological dead end. People try to patch it with mystery” or free will” but that doesn’t fix the part where he chose to make a world that plays out exactly how he knew it would. Less free will more scripting tragedy and calling it justice. The real shift comes when you stop trying to force logic into a belief that was never built for coherence and start asking does this version of God deserve my loyalty? And if not then what does? That’s where the actual freedom starts not in finding better answers but in realizing you’re allowed to stop defending bad ones. Everything is solved by the afterlife. Everyone gets their justice in the end. Let’s break it down into 2 different topics please 1 the idea of free will.. yes we have free will. We also have a thing called consequences. You’re free to do really anything but every action has a consequence whether it be good or bad and the ultimate consequences at the end of your days is heaven or hell. However in the grand scheme of that whether you choose to accept Christ is the only thing that’ll matter to get you into Heaven. And those who truly accept Christ will generally choose actions that are moral or good because of the repentant nature of accepting Christ. This comes down to my second thing.. sin. In Christianity God IS omnipotent and omnipresent. God knew before He created man that they would eventually go against His word.. in the Bible Genesis talks about the original sin and fall of man. God gave them literally 1 ‘do not do’… one thing…. Don’t eat the fruit of the tree of knowledge of good and evil.. ONE SIMPLE RULE. However… one of Christ’s own angels the one who was actually the leader of worship Lucifer decided HE wanted to be God.. he wanted to be the one calling the shots and took 1/3 of the angels with him when he fell.. and that is who ultimately was able to use trickery to trick Eve into disobedience by trying to discredit what God said if you eat the fruit you will die and them trying to appeal to what everyone wants.. knowledge and power. However God stepping in to change or reset or erase anything is against His nature and would rob us of the free will God gave. That’s why Jesus came and was sacrificed on the cross in 33 AD Straight White Men aren’t privileged. I’m a straight white American man and I’m tired of hearing how privileged I am compared to my fellow Americans. For simplicity sake I will refer to these as dominant groups and those outside of these categories as marginalized groups. I want to be clear and upfront about my view from the top here my belief is **not** that there is no inequality in society nor that the inequalities that exist follow certain demographic lines race gender sexuality etc. My problem is more so a language issue than anything else. Privileges are benefits that extend beyond what someone is entitled to. My experience isn’t anything beyond what I’m entitled to so to call it privilege is absurd. When you ask people to describe the privileges afforded to any of these dominant groups they usually list barriers obstacles or injustices that don’t effect the dominant groups but do effect the marginalized groups. Something like these— Black Americans are more likely to be arrested convicted or given a harsher sentence than a white American who committed the same crime. LGBT people are more likely to be bullied than their straight and cisgender peers. Women are underrepresented in medical studies resulting in lesser outcomes in treatment. All of those are true at least to the extent my cursory research has found. But none of those are examples of the dominant groups receiving anything more than they’re entitled to. Ultimately my point is that my experience as a straight white man isn’t any better than it’s supposed to be. How I get treated by society isn’t the problem the treatment of marginalized people is. Not being oppressed isn’t a privilege it’s the baseline. The problem isn’t that me and my neighbors *dont* get overpoliced it’s that black neighborhoods *do* get overpoliced The problem isn’t that me and my other straight friends didn’t get bullied enough in school it’s that my gay and trans friends got bullied too much. The problem isn’t that men are adequately studied in medicine it’s that women aren’t. TLDR I’m not privileged you’re oppressed. Now as to what I think would change my view. Show me an example of something specifically afforded to the dominant groups that goes beyond what everyone on paper is entitled to. Edit maybe I should reiterate this my issue is the language itself not the idea. So stop trying to convince me of the idea I’m not responding to that anymore. Privileges are positive externalities and oppression are negative externalities. I would argue that immunity from the harms to black lgbt and women IS privilege. An easier way to explain my view is imagine if those three groups were the only ones speed limits applied to. But none of those are examples of the dominant groups receiving anything more than they’re entitled to. I mean is this just a phrasing issue for you? Because essentially whats being said there is that you as a straight white man are entitled to deferential treatment from law enforcement. Thats the point here. Sure there is an ideal situation where everyone gets what you have but thats not the current state of play so it is a privilege to be in the situation where that is true for you when it is not true for everyone. To put it simply existing as the model of proper treatment in a society stratified by bias and inequality is a privilege. Actually receiving what you are entitled to when not everyone does is a privilege. Or to be even more direct to your words Being unoppressed in a society that oppresses folks is a privilege. And thats just everything standing on its face. Beyond that we have to get into the notion that you getting everything you are entitled to comes at the cost of others not getting those same entitlements. But I think we can leave that for the second round of discussion after we settle this first bit one way or the other. Relatively speaking your are privileged. You wording it from the perspective of degree of oppression doesn’t change the fact that you do enjoy the privilege of not being overpoliced doxxed/stalked because of your sexuality and gender expression and you are generally taken seriously when expressing your pain and discomfort to medical professionals and promptly receive the medication to mitigate it and also are not declared hysterical or overly anxious when you express concern over your diagnosis or lack thereof Privilege is not the same as A privilege. And yeah not being oppressed like others is privilege. TLDR I’m not privileged you’re oppressed. Definition of privilege a special right advantage or **immunity** granted or available only to a particular person or group. So you have the privilege to not be oppressed. Privilege is not about having something beyond what youre entitled to. Privilege is about not having to deal with the barriers that others face. Youre privileged because the system was designed for you I went to a talk about 10 years ago by Peggy McIntosh the woman who wrote White Privilege Unpacking the Invisible Knapsack in the late 80s. She said one of the things she wishes she had done differently was to distinguish more clearly between the type of privilege that confers disproportionate access to something everyone should be able to access equally versus the type of privilege that confers access to something nobody should be able to access. You can read her piece it does have some examples of both. I think 22 and 30 count as the latter definition of privilege. You described your own privilege in your post. Not fearing for your life during a routine traffic stop is a privilege society affords white people. You may not have asked for it. None of us have. I’m also a straight white man. But the inequality we are given over those who are not white is something that we all have the responsibility to acknowledge and fight against. The implication in saying that one of the dominant” groups is privileged is that they come from place of ~relative~ privilege. Conceptually any subject in a statement made about privilege cannot stand on its own — it’s always made in comparison to another group. If not explicitly stated then that generally means it is being made in comparison to all groups outside the aforementioned. This just seems like a semantics thing the whole point is the fact that you aren’t affected by said oppression is the privilege you have. It’s not about being treated better than you deserve it’s just about being treated better. What phrasing would you prefer people to use when comparing how one group is getting better treatment than others? DEI never includes you. Because your viewpoint and representation is the dominant one. Because no one is entitled to dominance and yet straight white male viewpoints and stories like ours are centered. I would suggest making your definition more precise. I think youre talking about privilege as one group gets that another doesnt while oppression referes to . Using these more precise terms would probably help with the confusion in the comment section. Not being oppressed is a form of privilege. I get it. The language some use can make it seem white men have it sooo easy” which is not the case. But if you found a startup for instance people will look at that startup at face value what it is what it does. Black and Latino folks will find it harder to get in the room to pitch. So yes the problem is that they’re oppressed. But it’s still a privilege not to be. To try another tack we should also live in a society without poverty. No one should have to worry where their next meal will come from. But we don’t and so those who genuinely worry if they’re going to eat tonight have less mental space to spend being creative and doing their job well. So it’s a privilege to not suffer poverty. It’s all relative to a certain degree. I guess you’re getting hung up on the word privilege. If they reframed to more disadvantaged” and less disadvantaged” does that make it better? In a sociological context privilege is any unearned advantage that comes from membership in a group typically meaning that it is a group they were born into and passively belong to. The definition does not exclude advantages that in an ideal world would rightfully apply to everyone. Even in your own definition though you should keep in mind that privilege in terms of race sex and sexual orientation frequently apply in areqs which are functionally zerosum meaning that the advantages inherently come at the expense of others who are unfairly disprivileged. For example when it comes to competing for others for a job opening if the employer has any bias against those who are not straight white men then you would have an advantage which should not exist because its fundamentally reliant on someone else having an unjustly difficult time. I don’t know that we’re perfectly aligned on your premise because I think not being the oppressed person in a society is going to naturally put you out ahead in a way that can reasonably be described as privilege. There is something that feels a little strange to me to understand hierarchies through the lens you’re using because usually the resources hoarded at the top of a hierarchy are outside of what would be considered equal treatment. That’s the entire reason that the top group desperately wants to protect their position in the hierarchy. The existence of oppression naturally supports the existence of a hierarchy. If someone is being oppressed someone is pushing down from up. I mean that in a systemic way not that you’re literally as an individual doing it although some of your peers probably are. It’s not oh we’re on an equal playing field and they’re pushing down other people but I’m still on the equal playing field” it’s by pushing other people down I get raised up.” Where does the equal playing field even exist to appeal to in the oppressive systems you’re acknowledging? When other people are denied opportunities that means more opportunities for you outside of what could be considered equal treatment. When you get in a hostile interaction with a person from a minority group regardless if you are the one being an ass the police are more likely to protect you and hurt the other person. There are so many situations where the mere act of someone else losing means that you will benefit and not in a way that could reasonably be described as equal treatment. As an advantage. I would just disagree with you on your definition of privilege. Oxford dictionary a special right advantage or immunity granted or available only to a particular person or group Merriam Webster a right or immunity granted as a peculiar benefit advantage or favor vocabulary.com A *privilege* is a special advantage not enjoyed by everyone britannica dictionary a right or benefit that is given to some people and not to others every single definition I could find basically boils down to having an advantage over others for being in a group or being a particular person. You already basically said white cishet men do have an advantage. This is the definition most people are working off of so when you say you dont believe straight white men have privileges thats because youre running off of a different definition than others. Words are mutable so its okay to run off of a different definition than others and use words in a different way than most but you at least have to know others are gonna be confused when you do and not understand your stance. Show me an example of something specifically afforded to the dominant groups that goes beyond what everyone on paper is entitled to. If there are limited job opportunities say one open position and three people apply one straight white man one woman of colour and one LGBT+ person and there is a bias against the woman of colour and the LGBT+ person is that not making the straight white man privileged by default? This man is getting a higher likelihood of getting the job than he deserves on paper because he isnt a member of a marginalised community. Not being oppressed *should* be the baseline. But its not always that way. Hence the privilege. so this should be easy . . . your definition of privilege is wrong. priv·i·lege a special right advantage or immunity granted or available only to a particular person or group. Like the advantage of not being arrested as quickly or being feared automatically based on your skin. The Advantage of having a name that doesnt get your application round filed for sounding too black. Immunity against prejudice by judges employers or white women walking down the street at dusk. Family legacy wealth passed on to just you accumulated over several generations while minority families were excluded from opportunities to build this wealth for their children. the advantage of having a bank offer you a higher loan value for your home based solely on the photographs of white people on the walls vs hundreds of thousands less if those pictures were a black family. I could go on but I think I made my point. You are not using the word Privilege correctly or in line with its actual definition. You’re technically correct but only because you set your line at how people should be treated.” Since you realize that many groups aren’t treated the way they should be how it is not a privilege to receive such treatment? Using your method anyone could set the line right where they are and for instance say that everyone should have a yacht. Suddenly having a yacht isn’t a privilege it’s the expectation. It makes more sense to set the line at the average treatment of someone in the society” in the hopes that more people realize they are a part of the system that needs reworking. If we do that then straight white men certainly have the privilege of sitting above that line. Mandatory minimum sentencing requirement disparity between carck and powder coxaine. ie you need to have 100 times the amount of powder cocaine compared to crack cocaine to get the same sentence. Crack is mostly used by marginalised groups while powder is mostly used by dominant groups. Both are the same drug. But one group will get drastically less sentence. I’ve always said that classism is a bigger problem than racism. Not to say racism and privilege don’t exist. But to say that none of these are as prevalent as a classist system built to keep people where they’re at. Society is just run by people who have done a masterful job of making us think that another persons skin color gender and religion are our problem and enemy. And yes non wealthy white men are looped into this. I want to be clear and upfront about my view from the top here my belief is **not** that there is no inequality in society nor that the inequalities that exist follow certain demographic lines race gender sexuality etc. Those inequalities *are* the privilege. I think youre assuming that people are on paper entitled to more than they are. Youre not entitled to much in this country even on paper beyond basic equal protection under the law any other degree of success or even most basic life necessities like food and housing is more of a privilege than a right. Having any degree of opportunity for greater success is essentially something either granted to you or not on the whims of those who have more than you and the fact that theyre more willing to give that to certain people than others is a privilege. Isnt the ability to not be oppressed due to your skin color a privilege? Privilege doesnt mean absecne of problem Everyone has problem but problems white guys face are faced by anyone else. Its not unique. E.g. losing job losinng loved ones youre oppressed by who? the black neighbourhoods get policed by who? queer people get bullied by who? theres a common answer. if you are able to live your life as an oppressor that automatically means youre privileged. For the last 6 years or so all Ive heard is your side of this. The reaction has been 10x larger than the offense. Also a straight white male here this is a complete nonissue. Your skin is just thin and you let some victim complex whiners rile you up. do you think if you were in exactly the same situation you are in right now economically socially politically etc. but were black or gay do you think your situation would be better? Who is doing the oppressing? I dont agree with you somewhat. * Are black people in america arrested at higher rates? Per capita? Yes. A higher percentage of black people are arrested than percentage of white people. Per crime? No. Black people *commit* vastly more crimes and *per crime* the arrest rate is lower. This indicates that police are actually softer on the black community. Moreover for crimes like murder its mostly black people killing other black people. * Women are underrepresented in medical studies resulting in lesser outcomes in treatment. Usually this has to do with the *possibility* of pregnancy and the riskaverse nature of companies when giving trial drugs to women who could be pregnant. But 10x the amount of funding is spent on womens cancers for example when compared to mens even when mens cancers have higher mortality rates. So I wouldnt say that womens health outcomes are always worse. There are a fair few false statistics running around the media its worth checking to see if they really are telling the truth or not. Id say when people say straight white male privilege what they mean is you get to be ignored in terms of targeting by The power that be that will effect other groups of people worse by say the government media banks and news. E.g. crime happens in news commited by a white male race will likely be ignored they will simply be man commit robberyif its a black immigrants or Hispanic male black immigrants or Hispanic will be the first thing you see. This isnt to say class and background arent huge factors in your life more they get to be more the central focus to worry over without factors that cant be changed Being white and Male lets you have neutrality and the benefits of the doubt in alot situations which is something that isnt always afforded to others. Privileges are benefits that extend beyond what someone is entitled to. Where are you getting this definition of privilege? The fact that we are oppressed and you aren’t is a privilege dude You have the privilege of not being oppressed. That’s what your privilege is. Privilege doesnt mean that you are born with advantages or have been given advantages in this case. It just means that you didnt have anything in your life that set you back at all and put you at a natural disadvantage. Youve recognised other groups can be disadvantaged relative to white people/white men. Youre in principle right to say tat what white men have is not a privilege in the sense that this is the baseline everyone should have. _However_ if for instance a black person is passed over in hiring becuse of his race and a white person gets the job instead this white person has just benefited from racism and gotten something he was not entitled to. This is a simple example but it illustrates how since we live in a society pushing some people down does elevate others. In general if we live in a free market economy but white men are exposed to less competition because others arent given a fair chance this obviously privileges white men. While this is not some exhaustive rundown of every possible situation where privilege arises I hope this helps illustrate why in practice there does exist privilege. privilege is about the barriers that you dont have to face not just about the perks youre handed. you saying im not privileged youre oppressed is missing the point. you not being oppressed is the privilege The privilege” is simply the privilege of not having systemic and/or historic barriers. [removed] Weve turned normal human emotion into a mental health condition. Weve turned every normal human emotion into a mental health condition and its actually making people worse Okay Im definitely going to catch hell for this one but I think our obsession with pathologizing everything is doing more harm than good. Like when did we decide that being sad sometimes means you have depression? Or that getting nervous before a big presentation means you have an anxiety disorder? I swear every other person I know is selfdiagnosing with something based on TikTok videos or online quizzes. My little cousin told me last week that she thinks she has ADHD because she gets distracted during boring classes. Im like... yeah thats called being a teenager in algebra class not a neurological condition. But now shes convinced theres something wrong with her brain instead of just accepting that some stuff is tedious. And dont even get me started on how everything is trauma now. Your parents made you do chores? Trauma. Your teacher was strict? Trauma. Someone was mean to you in middle school? Trauma. Like I get that actual trauma is real and serious but weve watered down the term so much that its lost all meaning. I think this whole thing is actually making people more fragile not less. Instead of learning that uncomfortable emotions are normal and temporary were teaching people that feeling bad means something is medically wrong with them. So instead of developing coping skills people just assume they need therapy or medication for every little thing. And the worst part is that this probably makes it harder for people with actual mental health conditions to get taken seriously. When everyone claims to have anxiety or depression it becomes background noise instead of a real signal that someone needs help. Im not saying mental health isnt real obviously it is. Depression anxiety disorders PTSD all that stuff is absolutely real and serious. This is coming from someone who has mental issues herself. But I think weve gone way too far in the other direction where were medicalizing normal human experiences. Like sometimes youre just having a bad day. Sometimes youre stressed because your life is actually stressful. Sometimes youre sad because sad things happened. Thats not a disorder thats just being human. you mention medicalizing human experiences but talk only about selfdiagnoses not medical at all. i would suggest that youre overextrapolating the sort of sincerity present in the comments youre reacting to. like when people say senior moment or I cant today I have ADHD without my coffee or whatever thats usually just glib small talk. the people who mean it literally and follow through on it are much smaller populations . When did we decide that being sad sometimes means you have depression? Or that getting nervous before a big presentation means you have an anxiety disorder? I dont know when did we? These things would not result in a formal diagnosis of a mental health condition. That generally requires a much more rigorous examination and usually a reference to a specialist. Is there any evidence that any rise in selfdiagnosis is having a negative impact on rates of medical diagnosis or treatment? Do you have examples of this other than from one teenager? I think your view is informed by your age and how much time you spend online. No adult I’ve interacted with does this. It’s college kids and teenagers who are still figuring out language and misapplying terms like every generation difference now is that we have less stigma around diagnoses and more chronically online personalities that are trying to make money off of that industry. \ being sad sometimes means you have depression Your understanding of mental health diagnostic criteria seems to be nonexistent. The criteria for being diagnosed with a depressive disorder are **5 or more** of the following present **over at least 2 week period** and must include 1 of the first 2 * Depressed mood most of the day nearly every day as indicated by either subjective report eg feels sad empty hopeless or observations made by others eg appears tearful. NOTE In children and adolescents can be irritable mood. * Markedly diminished interest or pleasure in all or almost all activities most of the day nearly every day as indicated by either subjective account or observation. * Significant weight loss when not dieting or weight gain eg a change of more than 5% of body weight in a month or decrease or increase in appetite nearly every day. NOTE In children consider failure to make expected weight gain. * Insomnia or hypersomnia nearly every day. * Psychomotor agitation or retardation nearly every day observable by others not merely subjective feelings of restlessness or being slowed down. * Fatigue or loss of energy nearly every day. * Feelings of worthlessness or excessive or inappropriate guilt which may be delusional nearly every day not merely selfreproach or guilt about being sick. * Diminished ability to think or concentrate or indecisiveness nearly every day either by their subjective account or as observed by others. * Recurrent thoughts of death not just fear of dying recurrent suicidal ideation without a specific plan or a suicide attempt or a specific plan for committing suicide. Further the symptoms cause **clinically significant distress or impairment** in social occupational or other important areas of functioning. The symptoms are not due to the direct physiological effects of a substance e.g. drug abuse a prescribed medication’s side effects or a medical condition e.g. hypothyroidism. There has never been a manic episode or hypomanic episode. And MDE is not better explained by schizophrenia spectrum or other psychotic disorders. The symptoms can not be in response to signiciant loss such as bereavement financial ruin losses from a natural disaster a serious medical illness or disability. Does that sound like being sad sometimes to you? That sometimes people use the term depression to say they are experiencing sadness does not mean that they confuse being sad with having depression any more than someone saying they feel manic means they think they have bipolar disorder. Similiarly your idea that someone being mean to you in school doesnt equate to trauma . . . well Ill just leave this here Weve all got problems. We all deserve relief. When something is causing you discomfort enough that you seek out a doctor to give it a name speaks volumes. Having a name for what ails you any name is at the very least a starting line to some kind of solution and validation. People with anxiety and ADHD often have an immense fear of others judging them even though they dont really care what other people think. Its impossible to explain to someone who doesnt experience it but no one should have to live life playing a playstation game on an xbox our brains literally interpret reality in a different but quantifiable way. Humans have suffered in silence for a long time because we all go through it. Yes we do. Trauma is complex and we have all experienced it but some brains synthesize the experience in a completely different way than most people. Its very dismissive and disingenuous to equate doing chores as trauma. Sure weve all been traumatized at some point but not everyone absorbed that experience into their entire survival model. When people were dying of the plague they did all kids of crazy shit cause they didnt know what it was. I mean we tried to ignore covid why would we not try to ignore autism? I truly believe theres just A LOT more people on the spectrum/adhd than we thought. The more we know the more complete analysis can become on individuals who may be a bit defective but fixable to put it bluntly. Therapy is WONDERFUL. I dont have coverage so I use ChatGPT as a sounding board no cap. Its just a place where someone gently encourages you to see your situation from other perspectives and brainstorm healthy behavioral solutions. Everyone could benefit from therapy and if 90% of people were going wed live in a better world. Ive been diagnosed with MDD since I was sixteen having had symptoms of anxiety documented from early childhood at this point I have more diagnoses than fingers and I spent years resenting people who claimed to be depressed. Sometimes its a teachable moment sometimes theyre just being dramatic for a second sometimes theyre really suffering from the wide range of clinical depression symptoms. You never know what is REALLY going on behind anyones eyes. Depression is not just feeling sad and doctors know that. You dont get diagnosed with depression cause youve had the blues for a few days. Theres half a dozen other markers to tick before you get the title. Therapy has helped me immensely personally. Maybe I dont have a magic pill to fix whats going on in my head but I can work around or get over the hurdles in life if Im mindful about it. I would not be the person I am today without therapy. We do all go through shit and we go through dramatic phases and life is hard no doubt... But we should never shut the gate on someone who thinks they might be suffering from something that can be alleviated with a diagnosis and treatment. I get the sentiment you’re expressing and I actually agree with parts of it like yeah not every uncomfortable emotion is a mental illness and overpathologizing can be unhelpful. But I think the way you’re framing it oversimplifies what’s really going on. Take your cousin for example. You mentioned she thinks she has ADHD because she zones out in math class. But that might just be the part she knows how to say. It’s possible she’s also experiencing time blindness emotional dysregulation forgetfulness etc. but doesn’t have the vocabulary to describe it yet. I say this from experience as I got tested for ADHD myself and turns out I had it. Same with depression. A lot of people don’t realize what they’re experiencing is abnormal for others until they see a video or post describing it and then it clicks. You also bring up trauma inflation” and yeah the word gets thrown around too casually sometimes. But I think most people actually do have a sense of scale. Like no one’s saying spilling coffee is the same as your mom being in stage 4 cancer. But something like constant verbal abuse or growing up in a highstress environment even if it’s not war PTSD” can still rewire how you respond to the world and that’s valid too so really this just shows how words change over time and how trauma” really just means an event that has impacted you emotionally to any specificity. What I’m trying to say is people who are casually selfdiagnosing usually either a don’t have access to formal healthcare or b are experiencing consistent distress and are trying to make sense of it. And a lot of them do go get tested eventually. If they’re constantly talking about depression or anxiety maybe it’s not attentionseeking maybe it’s persistence. So yes uncomfortable emotions are part of life. But if someone’s feeling stuck in those emotions longterm that’s when it crosses into something worth looking into. I don’t think most people are confusing a bad day” with clinical depression but if they are they’ll figure it out as they go. That’s life too. Honestly as a therapist myself this is pretty accurate. Many clients come to me saying they want to find tools to deal with frustration or sadness or anxiety but it turns out to be a normal level of frustration in response to frustrating things. They arent frustrated by little things dont explode when frustrated sometimes they have great coping mechanisms already whether thats some form of breath work taking space etc. They say some variation of ya but Im still getting frustrated when my boss *insert objectively frustrating thing* or *Im still feeling anxious about the massive surgery my husband needs to have next month that could kill him* We are supposed to feel anger sadness and fear in response to life. Its if we stay stuck there or our reactions to those emotions are harmful to ourselves or others or we are having these emotions constantly that we may need help. A large chunk of my work now days is helping my clients tolerate emotions after I can get them to see how impossible it is to never feel them. It can be hard to tell the difference between normal human variation and mental illness however we tend to label things as an illness or disorder when it is impacting a person’s life. It is normal to feel nervous before a presentation it isn’t normal to throw up from that anxiety. It is normal for your attention to wander when things are a bit boring but a person with ADD *physically can’t focus* and medication can make it much easier for them to because their brain is wired differently. Unfortunately there’s a tendency towards selfdiagnosis and laypeople adopting terms to refer to that normal variation oh I’m so OCD” that blurs the line between what is and isn’t medical in nature. But this can also be helpful for people by giving them a framework to understand themselves better and helping them find tools to better navigate their lives. People with autism may be unable or unwilling to get a formal diagnosis for example but selfdiagnosing can help them find a community of people who share similar struggles and who have advice on how to manage them or at least commiserate so they feel less alone. I feel like there is way more nuance to this conversation than what you are describing. Regarding social media I can agree that the pendulum has swung maybe a little too far in terms of self diagnosis and extreme overpathologizing but on the other hand it’s really opened up the conversation for people who may have been struggling with conditions they weren’t even aware of but can now identify and seek help for. To be clear I’m acknowledging that selfdiagnosis has become an epidemic with everyone having access to GPTs and Google. But and this is a Big but as someone who actually has ADHD and was not diagnosed for about 30 years into adulthood there is a massive difference. I grew up being told it is only normal feelings youre just weird why dont you remember anything that I just told you to do. Trust me the other side of the nondiagnosis is really not fun either. People just thinking youre stressed out or not serious about school or work because you lose focus thinking the person is just a dreamer. But if I had been diagnosed earlier I could have had better grades better opportunities and basically a whole new life. Im happy for what I have and thankful for it but opportunities were definitely lost. So letting people selfdiagnose is not the solution either but getting real support that is something worth having. Normal human emotions ARE mental health conditions when they start to interfere with your day to day life. And just like you can see a doctor because youve got a cold you should be able to just as easily see a therapist to help deal with the loss of a bad break up or worse. People should be able to go in to a therapists office for mental health check ips just as if they went in for their yearly physical. Mental health should be treated no differently than physical health. selfdiagnosing with something based on TikTok videos or online quizzes I mean your issue is right there. Of course people will inaccurately self diagnose. It isn’t the fault of medical practice learning about the human psyche and creating new diagnoses that cover the issues they find. Personally I’m of the mindset that self diagnosis is fine as long as it doesn’t lead to self medication. Being aware of issues that exist can lead to getting treatment. My mom insists none of us have autism because she never had us tested and turned out fine. My sister got diagnosed proper recently and we all look at my little brother as certainly also being autistic. My older brother struggled with undiagnosed ADHD until college when it was too late to change the coping mechanisms around it. I’m sure I’ve got a bevy of issues but therapy is expensive and I impulsively put up an Oh no everything is fine” façade whenever it comes time to discuss how I’m doing mentally. And I guess that’s the other thing too. You don’t know fully what’s going on in other peoples’ heads so it’s easier to discredit the idea that they potentially are mentally ill. Proper diagnosis of mental illness comes when the mental status interferes with normal life. You called out normal emotions being called mental illness but have you considered you aren’t seeing the full picture? Maybe that occasional sadness” manifests as staring into the void for three hours a day contemplating suicide. You wouldn’t be there for that. Maybe that nervousness manifests as nightmares and avoidance of peers to avoid further perceived humiliation. You won’t see that. Maybe your cousin cares about those boring classes but faces the endless frustration of not being able to focus and being unable to understand because of it. You’d probably wave off the idea that I consider not being allowed to date in high school a traumatic experience. But it took the form of not being allowed to be myself around peers or family so I never trusted anyone around me nor believed that any connection was genuine for the fear of losing any modicum of security and any potential at a good life. The point isn’t that you should counter diagnose you should support them in _getting help_ I think this isn’t new people have always taken medical diagnoses and applied them to themselves or others without the help of medical professional. The terms idiot and moron both used to be medical terms but popular usage led to them falling out of favor as technical terms. If someone thinks they have a condition based on an imprecise understanding of a medical diagnosis they’ll seek treatment and a competent professional will determine if they’re correct or not. People selfdiagnose their physical conditions too and end up being wrong. It’s not a crisis or anything new. ADHD is extremely underdiagnosed in women and girls. You have no idea if your cousin has it or not. Like many conditions its way less obvious precisely because the symptoms are different but criteria revolve around men this extends even to heart attacks meaning the mortality rate is greater for women that have one. Be wary of doing anything that would put her off seeking diagnosis if she feels that is necessary that will have life long negative impacts. Perhaps you should be putting your energy into looking to see if your mental issues might actually be diagnostically relevant you sound quite dismissive of yourself and your own experiences. Its actually really useful to be able to identify things correctly because then it can be tackled in the right way. Most of this is about the collision between modern capitalism and the normal range of human emotion and capacity. If we didn’t have to get up and go to work every day doing notnormalhuman shit in order to eat and not sleep on the sidewalk you wouldn’t see all this. No one evolved to sit all day at a desk when they’re 12 or work in a cubicle or an Amazon warehouse when they’re 25 or 65. However some people are better at it than others. Mental health conditions are *disabilities.* People seek them out because they give name to the things they don’t have the ability to do. Or do as easily as others seem to be able to do them. TLDR there is a discontinuity between the behaviors expected by modern western society and the full range of normal human behavior. While I can understand wanting people to not make themselves worse off by assigning themselves a condition they might not have I do believe that the answer is actually *more* education on the topics. I have clinally diagnosed anxiety and depression and I was not as educated on neurodivergencies as a kid. When people only have access to small amounts of information oftentimes that small amount can be taken and morphed into something that the true original idea didnt necessarily describe. Its like when you think of a memory and over time it morphs because your brain takes the path that uses less energy to recall distant memories bc of how insignificant they can be in relation to your present moment. To get back to the mental health misdiagnosing of generally healthy people if they have full access to a list of symptoms they are able to better understand the severity of their condition in relation to what other people without it experience. Its like a Checklist and if you dont meet the requirements its not you most times. However I will always be an advocate of seeing a psych doctor to further investigate a condition if that is an available option and youre truly concerned. Although there is widespread use of mental health language to describe a generally normal experience such as saying omg Im so ocd when you simply prefer a clean space without it impacting your internal sense of safety or overriding what you may want/need to do. OCD infringes upon a persons ability to complete at least some daily tasks which is why its labeled a mental disability/disorder. Its a way that the brain functions maladaptively. Thats not to say that people with conditions cant live full and happy lives but more often than not it will make it much more difficult. If we are able to collectively begin to fall away from using mental health language when describing normal emotions I do believe that it could bring a lot of stress down for everyone. However to stop using this language at all will usually lead to people not knowing that what they experience doesnt have to be so difficult like when someone finally hears about a health condition that they never had known the words for. Sometimes people will go their whole lives before being clinically diagnosed with autism or schizophrenia. Both can lead to very harsh day to day lives if not treated/diagnosed as early as others. If people dont know whats truly not normal they cant really begin to make life easier or more fulfilling for themselves and others around them. So the answer is more information not less You should tell your cousin that you know who she feels better than she does and that you know because of the studying you did to obtain your mental health counseling degree. As a child of a therapist and psychiatrist who has diagnosed ADHD and anxiety 1. Professionals are more aware that these things are neurological conditions than before 2. Society is way more open about it compared to when my parents are growing up 3. Some people say it like they say an action of theirs was gay but that doesnt mean people arent gay 4. It doesnt have to be obvious at first sight. I often do super well on schoolwork am driven and have no issues interacting with people. However other times I cannot focus without medication no matter how much I try I forget things in ways normal people just dont and I have crippling anxiety that spirals into panic attacks. Same with others 5. Youre whitewashing over traumatic experiences that often lead to a rewiring of your brain that then cause these things this can also happen from drugs. My friends thinking changed so much after he took shrooms its wild. You dont have to nearly die or be sexually assaulted for it to trigger something 6. Medication can be a godsend like for me and therapy is both a place where you develop those coping skills and are able to talk about things in a safe manner which is extremely good for your mental health. With regards to your hyperboles of people saying I think I have this” they haven’t necessarily ruled out going to a doctor/specialist first and they could just be monitoring symptoms. I’d say that people trying to learn more about themselves and be more conscious of their behaviours and mental health is a great thing. Without all this information online most mental health issues as well as most physical health issues would probably go unchecked. Hell they hardly teach us this stuff in school…. We’d be doomed I don’t think your point is your point. From your examples children and teens? it seems to me that you see a problem with people on TikTok hyping different mental health conditions so that they have gained what you feel is undue cultural relevance combined with a dare I say curmudgeonly take on the role of personal responsibility. It might be interesting for you to reflect on why this bothers you so much in others… The problem in my opinion isn’t selfdiagnosis but that most of them then use their diagnosis” as a reason to cop out instead of doing further research to find ways around it. All emotions are normal human emotions. Normal is a wide reaching term that absolves itself because anything a person goes through could be considered normal. My father used to threaten to kill me with a 30/30 every other week. Is my emotional reaction to that normal? Id say anyone put in that position would have the same normal reaction of terror. I cant believe weve named the varying degrees of shit. I mean hard as a rock or solid stream of a super soaker shit is shit ya know? I think one issue is that everyone self diagnoses. I am diagnosed with inattentive ADHD and take medication 4x as strong as the base tablets. My ADHD caused me a world of troubles throughout my life. I usually dont tell people about my ADHD unless I need to but when i do at least 50% of people are like oh yeah me too I think obviously in some cases it maybe true but I believe less than 5% of people are actually diagnosed with ADHD. Additionally I think the bar of a diagnosis is a lot lower than it used to be especially with autism. When I was a kid the idea of an autistic person was someone that struggles to tie their own shoe laces now days everyone says theyre autistic. I get that it is a spectrum so technically everyone can have autism to a degree but the level of which someone needs to be diagnosed is so much lower than it used to be. I can’t speak for everyone but you seem to have a very flawed view of what depression and anxiety are. I don’t know if you’re young misguided uninformed or all of the above so I’m going to be nice and try to help you understand because you seem ignorant rather than malicious. I’ll try to explain the best I can. Depression and Anxiety disorder aren’t being sad or nervous sometimes. They are crippling extremes that affect MANY aspects of your life. During my depressive episodes I lack all emotion whatsoever. I’m incapable of feeling joy sadness anger boredom excitement anything. I stop eating for days at a time because I have no appetite and any attempt to eat results in vomiting. This results in extreme weight loss I’m a 31 year old man who weighs 130 lbs soaking wet so I can’t afford to lose weight and blood sugar problems which lead me to hypoglycemia which can be fatal. I can’t get out of bed sometimes and I struggle to do even the most basic life functions like hygiene or chores around the house. My anxiety causes me to lose the ability to swallow and I will sometimes choke on even a sip of water. I will go days without being able to sleep. I’ve had panic attacks that required me to be crowdsurfed out of a concert I paid hundreds for a ticket to. This is not getting a little nervous.” This is debilitating not only to me but my wife and two children who I love with everything I have. Being sad sometimes usually does not affect your loved ones in my experience. Disclaimer these disorders are not because of my upbringing. I grew up comfortable with loving parents and extended family friends hobbies did well in school etc. my issues do not stem from Abuse. They are just there and there’s not a lot I can do about it besides meds and therapy. Those aren’t 100% effective and come with their own host of problems which make mental issues worse. It’s not pretty. It seems to me like you’re talking about people who selfdiagnose on the internet. That’s not pathology. To say being sad sometimes is not depression” while technically correct shows that you have a very very deep misunderstanding of what these disorders actually are. Nobody likes people who self diagnose for clout or because they think it’s quirky. Literally nobody. You aren’t special or unique for having that thought. You sound like my boomer father used to before he understood that I am having real problems that can’t be explained outside of my fucked up brain chemistry after my suicide attempts he changed his mind and educated himself Your fundamental flaw is that you have a surfacelevel understanding of mental issues/disorders/illnesses/ whatever and you’re letting the people you see on the internet form your world view of very complex and very debilitating experiences that real people have every day. If I were you I would consider yourself lucky that you aren’t really aware of how these things can ruin people’s and their loved one’s lives. Be aware that you have not had to experience them and be thankful for that but also educate yourself on the realities of these things. I’m early to the thread but you will soon see a huge swath of info on this thread that is not only personal experience but data curated from years of research and testing. If you don’t get that I’d go look into it yourself. If you’ve never been at a point where you’ve contemplated suicide you’re lucky. The rest of us aren’t so lucky. I genuinely hope this helps at least a little bit. Edit nevermind. I just saw your second to last paragraph. Oh well. I will leave this up for those who come after. Have a good one Each of the disorders you list exists in a spectrum depression manifests in many different varieties major depression psychotic depression postnatal depression etc. Someone who has a lot of sad days probably doesnt need a doctor to tell them they have depression. Someone who gets noticeably overactively nervous about things probably does have anxiety. The thing is most of us have issues on that spectrum because of how society is built and thats why its pathologized. Too many people start not enjoying life because of bad quality of life? Depressed. Too many people burning out at work or refusing to work for shit wages? Anxious and autistic. Too many people get the medical healthcare they want? Transgender. Too interested in the same sex? Homosexuality was a mental illness according to the DSM until 1987. And the people who wanted it to stay a mental illness are in their sixties and seventies ruining our country one republican at a time. ADHD isnt something wrong with my brain its working exactly as its trying to. Its a product of something prehuman telling us to be aware of where our next meal might be in this forest or if those berries on the bush taste right. Times are anxious and depressing paranoia inducing and traumatic. People are illegally getting snatched off the streets. The police system is a continuation of slavery. Corporations and politicians have enough overlap for Mussolini himself to call it fascism. Ignoring your natural instincts of danger as a human through great coping mechanisms truly should be the disorder. Our existence *is a neurological condition* and there is a lot of interest in medicating those hurt by these bad systems. Youre right that a lot of people exaggerate how bad these conditions can be for them but you ignore the number of people who downright suffer and the genuine reasons behind it. Sometimes it is something wrong with our brains. But sometimes its genuinely just our brains responded as intended in a world that is rough. All too often we tell people they always just need to stand back up and never address that we are constantly getting knocked down. Emotion is emotion until it becomes an unbreakable pattern to the exclusion of other experiences and day to day ongoing function. You’re not depressed for a day you’re depressed for years or a lifetime without intervention. Same with all your examples. What’s hard to understand about this? What if these disorders are actually normal to the point that most ppl do have them? This argument reminds me a lot of the vaccines causes autism. Just bc we are more aware of something doesn’t mean it didn’t exist in large numbers before. I mean for starters people WOULD be better off getting therapy for every little thing. Therapy isnt just for serious ailments it can help you be happier or have better relationships or deal with passing stresses or yes develop healthy coping skills for when you need them even if you feel okay in your day to day. I believe everyone should try going to therapy at least once in their lives no matter how good they feel about themselves. Just like you get annual GP checkups even if you feel fine its maintenance. Second point Who is diagnosing themselves with depression because they feel sad sometimes or with anxiety because theyre a tad anxious about public speaking? Riddle me this Why would a perfectly happy perfectly content perfectly mentally sound person be seeking answers about what is wrong with them? Ill agree that sometimes those people are mistaken sometimes whats up with them might not be PTSD but anxiety but there IS a reason they want answers and help. And sure to someone looking on from the outside it might just look like theyre a bit sad sometimes but for the person it might be I cant find interest in any hobbies I used to like Im hopeless about the future. To an external pov it might look like Im anxious about public speaking but to the person it might be Im hyperventilating at the idea of going up on stage im injuring myself to get out of it i keep turning over a conversation and all the ways it could have gone a million times a week after the fact and its stopping me from sleeping The reality there is an actual problem probably worthy of a diagnosis and is making those peoples lives really really unpleasant. So why cant they get help? You have a common misconception that any feeling of sadness or anxiety is enough to diagnose depression or an anxiety disorder. In truth to be diagnosed with these as I have you need to meet more requirements. You need to have these episodes a certain number of times in a certain period of time and they also need to be affecting your ability to function and do every day tasks among more as well. It’s not something that people who do not work with/have the disorders will understand. For example I was diagnosed with Anxiety last year. Mind you I have always been confident singing in public public speaking doing theatre etc. the point is I have ample experience pushing down my anxiety. When it came to a head last year I was going through extreme stress in grad school and was having trouble focusing. Little did I know at the time I was having trouble focusing because of my anxiety. It’s not a symptom you would expect anxiety to have and honestly I did not feel anxious at the time. Now I am taking medications to help my anxiety and my studying habits increased tremendously and my grades have gone up a full letter in harder classes than I was taking before my anxiety diagnosis. My anxiety diagnosis has 100% improved the quality of my life for 10$ a month on some pills that I’m not getting side effects from. As far as selfdiagnosing issues? Yeah that’s a problem. I was also convinced I had ADHD that’s why I sook out the medical professional last year and learned it was actually anxiety. That’s a completely secular from the prompt you gave as it’s an issue any medical diagnosis would have. Like when did we decide that being sad sometimes means you have depression.” We haven’t. No legit medical professional would diagnose random sadness as clinical depression. That’s not what depression is. If this is your fundamental view then the onus is on you to educate yourself a bit first. Your examples are just wrong. Everyone has anxiety. Its a normal human emotion. Sometimes you get anxious before doing new or difficult things. Anxiety disorder is life altering. Its not Im getting nervous about this presentation. Its Omg my presentation is today. I prepped for 10 hours but what if it wasnt enough? What if I forget it all? What if someone asks a question and i cant answer it? What if i forget how to talk altogether? What if its so bad I get fired? Do I have enough in saving to cover rent for a few months and find a new job? What if I faint? Im gonna throw up. Omg im so dizzy. This is so pathetic. Im so embarrassing. Why cant i do this? I cant do this. I have to get out of this somehow. Why am I so hot? Its too hot. Im so dizzy. Omg im about to shit my pants. What if I shit my pants? I cant breathe. This is disordered thinking and absolutely isnt normal human emotional. It typically requires therapy putting in work medication or a lifestyle change to overcome. I think youre confusing someone experiencing anxiety the emotion and having an anxiety disorder. Likewise I think the opposite of you. Its important to bring attention to this and let people know that disordered thinking *isnt* a normal human emotion because it leads to millions of people disregarding thoughts and feelings that should be addressed by a professional as normal. Emotions are mental conditions brainstates and when theyre dysfunctional we need to restore health. Thats often a matter of correcting perspective but it can be chemically induced. Im in therapy and talk openly about being depressed with my therapist. I am depressed which is a normal nonpathologized human emotion. I still get up go to work see my friends pay my bills and feed myself. My depression does not impede my daytoday living as such my depression **does not meet any of the diagnostic criteria for a psychiatric or mental disorder**. I am depressed but I do not have Major Depressive Disorder or General Anxiety Disorder or anything else in the DSM5. The operative word is *disorder*. Everyone throughout the course of their life feels depressed anxious maybe even a bit narcissistic or antisocial at various points in their life. But the diagnostic criteria for everything a therapist or psychologist could diagnose you with requires the issue to be significantly impeding your life or lifestyle. TLDR You can be depressed without having a depressive disorder and the same goes for most other mental ailments. It is a matter of degree they have not pathologized depression they have pathologized SEVERE depression the kind of depression that makes people want to kill themselves or unable to get out of bed and fulfill their societal obligations which are reasonable things to be pathologized and do genuinely warrant professional intervention or psychiatric medicine. What you’re talking about is psychobabble. The internet has normalised psychobabble and all of us but especially those of us in the field of psychology are worse off for it. Like when did we decide that being sad sometimes means you have depression? What exactly and precisely is the harm in saying this? So they say theyre depressed. Now what? They either try to do something about it themselves which is exactly what theyd do if they were just sad... or they go to a doctor which is what they should do to find out if its actually a disorder. Does talking shit about his *actually* hurt anyone at all in any way? I see exactly no evidence of this. People with real disorders actually still go to the doctor and are actually still diagnosed and treated. I mean this view is kind of a catch22... if they need help the their selfdiagnosis wasnt really wrong. If they dont need help their selfdiagnosis harms nothing and no one. So what if they talk about their being sad as being depressed? Does that change anything? No. We still treat people with major depression as a society just like we ever did. Its not like people ever really talked about that stuff before socially *anyway*. Normalizing talking about it probably helps a few people because if its just talking shit no one is *stigmatizing* them... well... except you. Does *that* help people that really need help? Is your view *really* the problem? Hi so with how the world has developed the past decades with technology and all humans themselves have progressed —either more downward or upward whatever makes more sense —differently. You’ve seen people more distracted than before short term memory flicks all thanks to the phones. This is a new kind of human” humans have experienced at least more than ever in this generation. Back in the days mental disorders are reserved for those who are super on the spectrum like psychosis or schizophrenia. Nowadays there are spectrums where you can be on the fence for autism anxiety depression. It’s not a black and white picture like it would be in the past where a mental disorder is considered to be you’re sick or you’re not. Nowadays the beauty of being on the spectrum on mental disorders mean you are not completely sane but still functional. And as you mention that we are just humans.” That’s correct. Humans have issues and now people are starting to latch on that a lot of people have issues. To give you an idea a healthy minded person would be someone who doesn’t overthink doesn’t stress that much and live through life with a very strong mind. They don’t develop traits that cause them to feel like they’re going crazy. I only know a FEW amount of people who are like this or maybe at least they’re good enough to fake it. My partner for example super stable. Came from a healthy family. Never had mental issues. However nowadays most humans lack a healthy mindset. And the goal of defining mental disorders is to help people feel as normal as they want to feel. It doesn’t necessarily fix the generational crisis of mental health issues but it certainly is a great way for healthcare companies to generate profits. It all comes in a circle. So do mental disorders exist in most people? That’s debatable hard to argued against and for. But is it annoying to see everyone having issues? Sure but it’s none of our problems. The most important thing is we try our best to keep ourself sane without letting others influence us. Including that damn phone. This is a problem of social media and poor education. You should go offline for a bit and your little cousin clearly spends too much time on TikTok. Living in a shit environment probably makes most people mentally ill. I don’t doubt that most people today are riddled with mental illness. A nuance on your view Language has been coopted to describe events and scenarios much more broadly than their original meaning. Narcissism can be a mental health diagnosis. But it’s now more widely used most often by women to describe some guy who acted like a jerk. Abuse describes some fairly severe inflicting of harm by a perpetrator on a victim. But it’s now also used to describe dissatisfaction at anything in a relationship. Trauma is a meaningful negative event experienced by many people and a suitable cause for mental health therapy. It’s probably not just because the girl who was supposed to meet you for a date stood you up. The fact that language has become anemic and lost its currency through misuse doesn’t mean that the original intended meaning isn’t actually true. Narcissists do exist. Abuse sadly happens. Trauma sadly exists as a real health issue. Just not as frequently as every Instagram comment would suggest. Theres a greater issue at hand and thats that society is sick as a whole. People are medicated recommended therapy etc. due to the symptoms of living in a world thats become the antithesis of thriving. Where normal reactions to this unhealthy way of life are seen as a disorder. People are deemed divergent if they have a hard time adapting to a wholly inhospitable life balance. Like putting a bandaid on a shotgun wound it does nothing to cure the ills that plague people day in and day out. I mean I think a lot of socalled mental disorders are mostly just a Wider society not being sensitive or open enough to try to understand somebody with a very like advanced or powerful mind and instead dismissing labelling insulting etc them b As you indicated reactions to ones environment. Which are understandable and have explanation. Do I think ANY actual disorders may exist is there any kind of chemical imbalances and so on that maybe medication can effect? Perhaps but Im actually mostly doubtful about it. I feel like therapy is too expensive and so nowadays we just force everyone onto drugs which we really dont completely understand how they work. Just take a read on any psychiatric medication and the list of possible effects it has will boggle you it ranges wildly. So its basically shots in the dark and trial and error. And to make pharma companies profits. When people are given language to describe things they now have ways to put into words their experiences. Like all things people *exaggerate* their experiences. When I was younger people abused the word literally so much that it became this big online thing were killing the English language by using words to mean the opposite of what they really mean! All of this because people online and in schools were saying things like If I dont get this good grade Ill literally have an aneurysm! Using words incorrectly to express emotions is pretty standard especially for young people and its always cluttered genuine expression. I dont see it as pernicious or anything but I do think people that speak like that will eventually learn that doing a chore isnt trauma when they have to deal with a person that has real PTSD or some such trauma. The DSMV provides diagnostic criteria for mental health conditions. Being sad sometimes” would not satisfy the criteria for depression being nervous before an important presentation would not be diagnosed as an anxiety disorder being appropriately distracted would not be diagnosed as ADHD. The problem a lot of clinical psychologists and psychiatrists are seeing is that people are selfdiagnosing and then coming in to see a professional already under the impression that they are diagnosed. This has caused a substantial workload increase and frustration in the professional communities. I think your confusion here may be between selfdiagnosis and overdiagnosis? Regardless what you are claiming is factually incorrect. I wonder if what this post is about on a deeper level is learned helplessness or maybe experiencing enough neglect and lack of connection to seek a problem that warrants attention. On some level I think this is connection seeking behavior or a way of diminishing feelings of shame that people don’t have sufficient compassion to metabolize fully. Resilience isn’t just a skill it’s something a community of connection and modeling supports developmentally. People will totally lean into whatever helps them cope including an accepted selfdiagnosis. At the end of the day I think mental health is relational health. And the formal medical establishment in the US is barely beginning to acknowledge the many forms of complex trauma CPTSD and neglect for emotional health and relational connection. I agree that pathologizing natural human experience and emotional function can be extremely damaging but what’s normal in society and families in many ways are very toxic traits emotional illiteracy and relational dysfunction. The step towards accepting neurodivergence and de stigmatizing it seems like a beneficial step towards therapy and cultural change as long as we don’t get bogged down in exclusively pursuing pharma solutions that create further dependencies. You mentioned self diagnosis. The medical field doesnt do anything about that. We dont think being sad is an issue. Depression is not sadness. Depression actively causes major issues in normal day to day life. Do you think an emotion should be normlal causing peoples lives to have major issues which dont occur for most of the population? Just random emotions becoming a huge obstacle to basic human functioning? That is not normal. Which is why we study them fix them. Self diagnosis means about as much to actual disorders and mental issues as a person on the internet who read a wiki article and claimed to solve quantum gravity. I also just want to say that what’s trauma for one person isn’t trauma for the next. Every human is different and so yes how people talk to you and how you’re treated can be traumatic depending on the situation. Self diagnosis is never okay. Seasonal and situational depression is a real thing. But more importantly I think it’s all just a trend. It’s not in our nature to be precise with our language I’m dying” I’m going to pass out” I’m starving” I’m depressed” are things that are thrown around when more likely than not it’s not as heavy or intense as the word they’re using to describe it. My little cousin told me last week that she thinks she has ADHD because she gets distracted during boring classes. Im like... yeah thats called being a teenager in algebra class not a neurological condition. But now shes convinced theres something wrong with her brain instead of just accepting that some stuff is tedious. I mean thats selfdiagnosing which is an entirely different issue. Theres zero question peoples brains handle the situation youre describing differently though and that society is structured only for people who handle it the preferred way hence the neurodivergent designation. Who do you mean by we” in this situation? Because I don’t think most professionals are doing this but the public is. This is actually being discussed as a concern among professionals. Especially since a lot of what you’re talking about are examples of misinformation. Just because you can read a criteria list does not mean you are qualified to contextualize it or perform assessments related to establishing the criteria. But your argument sounds similar to an argument people will make for getting rid of the DSM which I think is a very baby and the bath water” situation. I agree with you tbf I thought more people would have resonated with that seems to have been a huge thing over the last 5 years. At some point ADHD and Autism became a trendy thing to have and now so many people have it. People in the comments saying they arent seeing it so many people in my work and personal life are saying theyve got something I dont know how it could be missed. As a parent to young kids so many other parents saying their kids have ADHD or Autism. A couple saying they think their kids have ADHD because they have too much energy yeah theyre children.... Every disorder is a normal human condition taken to a disordered extreme. It makes sense then and is helpful to have a term for each disordered extreme so that people can better articulate their thoughts and feelings. The drawback is peoples tendency to selfdiagnose or to try to show sympathy by claiming that they too feel or do X when their X is not the extreme version. This can feel minimizing to sufferers and strike people such as yourself as absurd which is valid. Medical practitioners thankfully are not so loose with their terminology and diagnoses. Going to therapy IS learning coping skills. Thats the purpose of therapy. Im not sure why you set up learning normal coping skills as an alternative to therapy. Emotions are complicated especially our own and most skills are learned best with the help of a specialist. We dont all *need* therapy but it can be beneficial to everyone whether we have a disorder or not. We dont have to handle everyone on our own just because we can. The fact that seeking professional help is becoming more normalised in our society is not a negative thing. I knew from that title that you were going to say depression is just being sad. The only way to change your view is to tell you you do not understand what depression is. This is akin to my ignorant neighbors in the dead of winter saying see I told you that global warming stuff was fake. The way I see these mental health conditions is more about a categorization of how your brain chemistry responds in various situations. Sometimes simply understanding that can help the individual and the people they are interacting with realize that the emotions we feel are a response to how are brain is processing the information either correctly or incorrectly. And when our reactions and responses become too extreme perhaps in a spiral understanding that can also help plan a sustainable path to return. We didnt and theres no valid reason for your opinion that we need. Every mental health condition has formal diagnostic criteria and exclusion criteria. **One of the diagnostic criteria for every mental illness is that it is outside the normal range of human experience AND is having a significant impact on the persons social and occupational functioning.** In this context occupation means normal activities including but not limited to paid employment. If you think being sad sometimes or having a bad day or being sad because sad things happened is what people mean when they say they have depression then Im sorry but you just dont know what depression is. One of the very important things about recognizing depression as a mental health condition was making it clear that it is *not* just normal temporary uncomfortable emotion and that coping is not sufficient to deal with it. Yes obviously some people say they have depression when they dont. Some people also say they have cancer when they dont. But the thing that actually makes it harder for people with mental health conditions to be taken seriously is when people liken those mental health conditions to mundane sadness. They are qualitatively different things. Likening depression to having a bad day is like likening a gaping hole in your gas tank to being out of gas. Normal human condition + modern society = mental health condition. The solution to that is not to tell people especially young people with mental health conditions that everyone else deals fine with what theyre moaning about. The solution is massive reform of society to make it less individualistic and highpressure and more communitybased. Until that happens let your niece have support for her ADHD symptoms. Sort of agree. Diagnosing conditions is necessary for treatment and can be difficult these days but Im very skeptical that psychopathology has any meaningful contribution to healthcare. I dont see any use in labeling certain personalities disordered because nobody is a disease. I hate when people act like their condition is their personality because its ignorant of the real factors that contribute to ones health. You mention the conditions that many people have though which I dont think is the problem. We need to be talking *more* about the rates of depression anxiety and other conditions. If thats the language we need for mental health to be taken seriously by the insurance industry so be it. They make much more money from treating incurable disorders than actually doing progressive treatments so the discourse in academia is often skewed towards pathologizing our daily lives. Its a sleight of hand basically. You make some good points but also say that our focus on mental health and trauma is somehow making people worse. Idk that doesnt add up. What you mean ‘we’? Some influencers” and the ignorant may throw these terms around as hypochondriacs throw around ‘cancer’ and ‘gastritis’ and all. Doesn’t mean there aren’t people who really have those diseases. Granted psychology is way behind medicine but again that doesnt mean there is no distinction between normal human behavior and painful and sometimes lethal illness. My my. You’re on the cusp of a genuine revelation aren’t you? But you just aren’t digging deep enough yet! You are too caught up in the realm of your own frustration. Why? Ah…Because you are seeking relief. In other words you don’t actually believe that these things are wrong do you? You simply *eagerly desire* for them to be wrong so that you can force them into compliance with the worldview you find most comforting. Am I right? If I am right that would mean that you are not seeking to have someone change your view but seeking to invite others to judge whether or not this your hope your ideal is actually a wish within reason or an impossible dream. So…what is my perspective then? Well for the sake of the comment I must disagree…it is an unrealistic dream. But that is only because you did not wish for the proper setting in advance of this dream. Allow me to help you establish this your dream space and in doing so earn the right to change your view by means of enhancing your vision. What you must wish for is this that all technical terminology and understanding be removed from the realm of general understanding. Why? Because technically understanding and general understanding are oil and water. They do not mix well and the forced emulsion is a confusion regardless of how delicious it tastes... 🤤 *Ahem* as I was saying… Technical knowledge is meant to serve only within a particular realm. These realms we call fields” and they are essentially pocket realities we manifest in thought in order to freely apply rules and principles to shape what is true and false within that realm—an ability that does not translate into reality the general realm. To put it simply fields of study are fairytales created to convey concepts using imaginary objects and it is necessitated by the need to make those objects do things that objects in reality cannot do. For example within a certain field an object might tell” you something about the world whereas in reality objects do not tell. This personification is a means of allowing us to communicate with our surroundings but not in reality! Only in fantasy. The idea behind the field is *not* to pretend as though the fantasy things are real but to immerse our minds in the fantasy in order to enhance our reallife behaviors. In other words to act. The best way to envision these fields are like overlays. How is it that some people confuse these overlays for plain reality? The point of confusion is the point of commonality between the real world and the fantasy our language. Yes language is the culprit. Language is to blame. In what way? In the same way a wolf in a fantasy tale might confuse people who have never encountered a wolf into thinking they know something about wolves after reading the fantasy story! In just this way! People absorb technical knowledge while failing to understand that it was never meant to be real or representative of reality. It was always meant to alter reality for the one immersed within it but to return them to reality when they stop thinking through that particular lens. So look back at what you are upset about and see with new eyes. The issue isn’t that people are obsessed with wolves. It’s that the fantasy tale describes wolves as small rodents so now people actually genuinely believe that their cage of mice is a den of wolves. The cure? Easy. You expose the confusion two terms that are identical but have different meanings wolf” in the fantasy and wolf” in reality. When people understand that these are two different terms describing two different things? Then your dream space will be complete and your dream will finally have a chance at becoming your actuality not in fact but in form an overlay that is a perfect fit. If I were the master of humans I’d make it so that all fields be required to have their own languages. This would alleviate confusion. Take Mathematics for instance. Can you imagine if the number 1 was called I” and the number 2 was called you”? People would be walking around saying I always come before you!” 😂 The powerful way these confusions impact our society is truly astounding. I hope that this is helpful. 🙏 Bullying can be real traumatizing I see people complain about this often but I have yet to see it actually happen. I find it’s usually the opposite. People who have these disorders doubt themselves more than anything. And that is probably exacerbated by all the people talking about how everyone has x nowadays and they’re just doing it for attention. Youre right we have. Have you read any works by Anthony Daniels aka Theodore Dalrymple? They will give you a deeper understanding of the phenomenon youve correctly observed and described. People selfdiagnosing and others nodding in validation is not the same as being diagnosed with an actual mental illness and if any of these people were properly evaluated they’d be told so. . Your parents made you do chores? Trauma. Your teacher was strict? Trauma. Someone was mean to you in middle school? Trauma. Teens and preteens being overly dramatic is as old as time. Like when did we decide that being sad sometimes means you have depression There is a difference between being sad and the conditions that fall under the umbrella term depression Perhaps you should allow the medical professionals to determine when someone is suffering from depression rather than breezily assuming people are overreacting I think the world/technology is changing faster than the human species is evolving and that the incongruity is pushing our cognition and ability to handle stressors to the max We dont like feeling and working through difficult feelings because its hard. We either turn it into an illness itself or numb ourselves with other things. [removed] Are you a medical professional qualified to make a diagnosis? You are correct. Especially parents wanting a medical explanation for their childrens normal or bad behavior Individual action on climate change matters from a moral standpoint I want my view changed because it is so exhausting to live with so little mental and moral clarity. Please help. I studied environmental science in university and throughout my time I took a particular interest in the intersections of culture and climate action. Ive also read extensively about who is responsible for causing climate change. Where I am stuck is that there seems to be contradicting viewpoints on who is responsible for solving it. I know the following to be true Individual people working as individuals have very little control over greenhouse gas emissions. %20%5B1%5D. suggests that households do have control over 62% of GHG emissions while suggests that it is just a small number of individuals that cause a majority of emissions. EITHER WAY there is no study that suggests that your average EVERYDAY INDIVIDUAL aka you and me acting alone tends to make big moves on climate change. Individuals who do make a difference are often associated with governments and companies. Thus as many climate scholars have concluded and as many of my peers at university are rather quick to conclude the onus lies on corporations and governments to make a difference. Here is where I get stuck corporations and governments are ran by people homo sapiens just like you and me. Why do we say that individual action matters when individuals are literally in charge of emissions? This is where the moral standpoint of my argument comes in. How can I in good conscience tell another individual to hold themselves accountable for climate change if I have not done the same for myself? Ill start with the example that inspired this post. I was contemplating buying a new phone this past week with a friend. We both studied climate change in some capacity in university. I told her that I should try to source my phone from a responsible producer who upcycles electronics rather than getting an entirely new phone that would contribute to lithium mining which I view as an unjust practice as we already have enough lithium for our electronic gadget desires. She said that it was not my responsibility to spearhead lithium recycling programs in South America where we weve been backpacking for the past year through consumer choices. I objected by saying why would a company or government be compelled to give me a recycled phone if I as a consumer dont express a desire for this product? Of course I had made the assumption that a government cares about my consumer choices which is why I am attempting to argue from a place of MORALITY. What moral right do I have to demand that my government put in the effort if I myself do not put in the effort? Or perhaps a better question why should the government care about climate change if I show them that I myself do not care about climate change through my actions? And even more if individuals believe that what they do dont matter were totally screwed. We need people who are motivated to making a difference and I see an apathy for individual action as a slippery slope to apathy for collective action which as someone who has participated in collective organizing is a hell of a step above individual action in terms of the energy and what is expected from organizers. Please change my view Sincerely A mentally exhausted individual Of course they matter but think about how much time you just spend squabbling with yourself over a minute decision instead of focusing on organizing to make systemic change. I think that’s more how to think. Try to be moral sure but don’t stress excessively over every decision you make because it’s a waste of mental energy in the grand scope of things. Try to make the better decision but don’t beat yourself up when you don’t. Instead focus on making systemic change you do have a limited capacity to focus so turn your mental energy towards larger more impactful projects. Edited to add perfectionism is the death of progress Ah yes morality. Governments dont care. In representative democracies politics is not about making the world a better place. It is about preserving power and selfenrichment. Politics equals showbusiness for ugly people. The alternative would be sortition which may have been our way out at some point. But I digress. I consider myself a highly principled person I do not break laws I see merit in stick to rules that I believe make sense even if society at large is lacking practice what I preach vegetarian etc. I believe this comes from a place of morality. But my view on climate change is radically different from yours. It is my view that climate change and making the Earth ecosphere largely uninhabitable for human animals is a way to force a reset. Human society is fundamentally broken in multiple ways and maximising my carbon footprint makes me both part of the solution and a winner instead of a sucker in case of climate catastrophes thus adding to my mental wellbeing. Your moral compass is unknown to me but as a utilitarian this makes moral sense to me. I find it hard to imagine a future situation worse than the status quo and am willing to take that chance over smokescreens that are climate agreements. In case youre wondering investing in proofofwork crypto and feeding my cats beef are my goto carbon maximisers as I can illafford a private jet to fly around and burn fossil fuels more directly. Hope that provides some fresh perspective. Here is where I get stuck corporations and governments are ran by people homo sapiens just like you and me. Why do we say that individual action matters when individuals are literally in charge of emissions? There is quite an enormous difference between the two actions you are describing. When people refer to individual actions they are typically referring to things that single people do to make a small difference. This might include taking a metal reusable straw everywhere or refusing to buy from the Coca Cola company. Largely these actions are limited to one person and may bounce around to the circle of people that they know or interact with. The action of a leader or person in position of prominence is quite different. If the CEO of Coca Cola decides to switch to a more expensive Taro based plastic polymer which degrades 100% in a few weeks then that act is much more than an individual one. It effects every purchaser and consumer of Coca Cola which numbers in the billions presumably. How can I in good conscience tell another individual to hold themselves accountable for climate change if I have not done the same for myself? Well you shouldnt. Let he without sin cast the first stone and all that eh? Beyond people living off the land in ecofriendly communes everyone everywhere is causing some kind of unnecessary damage to the environment or producing more carbon than they ought to be or could live without. How much environmental damage will be caused by this Reddit post? You could have just chosen to keep your thoughts to yourself or discussed them in person with a group of friends. You could have even collectively organized a meeting of likeminded individuals to discuss this. Your view seems to be based in a semantic issue the idea that every group is comprised of individuals. Individual action in the climate context tends to mean a non affiliated action not prompted by specific boycott or movement such as choosing to take the bus rather than a car or eat a certain brand rather than another. It may be inspired by a campaign and collective action but its about the day to day life of that person. Closing down a mega corporation like CocaCola would not be down to an individual nor the result of individuals collecting together to campaign but a combination of so many factors it would be difficult to express them here. On a moral level if your actions have no actual bearing then theyre morally neutral even if they feel like the right thing or just good overall. How one might change your view is going to depend on clarifying your implicit moral framework. Are you a consequentialist? Do you think the morality of an action is determined by its outcome or at the very least its reasonably projected outcome at the time of action? Then the question becomes about analyzing what the consequences of your current course of action are from your selfreport not much positive and a lot of negative for your own life and energy. Perhaps if you were a little less conscientious about this issue in your life you would have more energy and time to succeed personally and professionally which would later in your life out you in a position in which you could have more real impact. Are you a deontologist? Then the consequences arent what matters most there are just right and wrong actions and you have an obligation to choose what is right. If this is the case the way to change your mind would be to interrogate whether the actual actions you are currently investing time and energy into are the right ones and whether exhausting yourself might not be wrong on a moral level. Perhaps looking for an upcycled phone is good but not being exhausted and drained is better as it honors your own worth and the lives and happiness of those around you? Perhaps you have obligations to your family and friends that you arent meeting as well because of your mental exhaustion? Depends on your morals. From a consequentialist perspective it doesnt matter. LA protesters are hurting their cause by engaging in violence and destruction Hey y’all. I’ve been thinking about this a lot lately because I strongly support protesting the actions of ICE but I think the burning of cop cars destruction of property and violence that some of the protesters in LA are engaging in only hurts their cause. They’re feeding into the narrative that anyone who opposes ICE raids/ deportation without trial/ etc is a violent anarchist who wants chaos in society and makes them much less sympathetic to anyone considering changing their mind. This goes for blocking roads too to a certain extent I understand that protests are supposed to be disruptive but potentially blocking ambulances/ emergency vehicles just doesn’t seem right to me. Plus most people can’t afford to miss a day of work or be late because of closed roads. I don’t see how these actions do anything to help their cause but maybe I’m missing their point. Genuinely interested to hear y’all’s opinions. no only **some** **small portion** of the LA protesters are undermining the cause. the police are undermining their own cause and their own authority granted to them by us the people by and . considering the authoritarian regime which has been and is currently willfully violating the constitution of the United States on daily basis and has been for the last 120+ days is targeting poor people in a moronic attempt to make america great again Id say the protestors are right to be angry. the subset of young broke stupid young men that are committing acts of violence and vandalism at these legitimate protests is very unfortunate however. [deleted] I don’t see how these actions do anything to help their cause Their cause is to disrupt ICEs operations. Violence and destruction are disrupting ICEs operations. Cause helped. most people can’t afford to miss a day of work or be late because of closed roads. So maybe if they miss work and recognize they missed work because ICE is behaving in a flatly illegal manner then they will pressure their reps to reign in ICE. because I strongly support protesting the actions of ICE Great. Lets zero in on this. I want you to imagine and if you could articulate for the benefit of everyone reading this thread all of the things that you would be willing to do / think are correct to do in order to protest the actions of ICE. Then I want you to imagine that ICE **doesnt stop** and in fact **keeps escalating** its abuses of power and trampling of civil rights despite your having done the things you enumerated above. Now what? Do you no longer oppose the actions of ICE? Do you suggest we all roll over? Think it through. Imagine this you’re in a theater watching a movie when someone comes running in yelling screaming making a huge obnoxious scene to let everyone know there is a fire in the building. What would you do? Would you ask them to leave and return when they’re ready to calmly share this information with you in a polite fashion that better takes your comfort into consideration? Or would their extreme behavior help cue you in to how serious this actually is help you get into gear and out of the burning building? How would you deliver the news if you saw the fire first? Tone policing is the not productive to the cause and serves those in power. In order for nonviolence to work your opponent must have a conscience Stokely Carmichael. ICE and the fascist regime backing it are violently attacking the people of this country. Anyone who hasnt made up their mind yet is a coward on the wrong side of history. Theyre gonna find out exactly how we earn rights in this country and its never been by asking politely. Just my 2 cents I havent heard of protestors blocking ambulances. Daytoday its cars that do that not pedestrians. Being polite doesn’t get shit done. What is your cause and what did you do to invoke change? Oppressive forces are always going to aesthetically align those they intend to oppress with barbarism. You can’t play polite with violent regimes and ICE is a violent entity. They are not hurting their cause by going on the necessary defense. ...what do you think their cause is? they are saving the face of ur country as i asume u are american. If not they are saving usa face. reminiscent quaint mighty seed imagine tease ripe edge fuzzy marvelous *This post was mass deleted and anonymized with * If you look at the history of protest in the US you will see the same pattern of state violence against it. The labor rights movement womens suffrage civil rights gay rights anti Vietnam war all faced state violence while attempting to have their voices heard. To dissent one must disrupt the civil rights movement held various sitins and other forms of organized disruption. Suffragettes hosted similar disruptive events. Labor organizers attempted peace many times until they were fired upon and assaulted by militarized officials. No right which we hold today was given to us by asking nicely. They were taken by force from an oppressive establishment that would sooner see you under heel than give creedance to what is morally or ethically right. Now there is a definite line between wanton destruction and disruption and this comes with organizing. But in the early phases of a wider political movement which I believe this is disorganized violence comes when leadership has yet to properly form. In either case the violence is justified a paramilitary organization that effectively answers only to the president is sending masked armed men with no ID and no due process to target members of specific ethnic/racial identities. I cannot stress how justified these actions are. Do you believe that protests are meant to get people on your side by being polite and kind? If so why have the most effective ones involve disruption and discomfort. Could you provide an example of a successful movement that existed without disruption or violence? literally you I mostly agree. Heres what Id like to see Everyone protesting should be carrying American and California Flags not flags from Mexico. And please please do not allow yourselves to be goaded into throwing things graffiti looting and destroying property. That behavior will only embolden Trump and his supporters. Dont give them Cause!!!!! Were better than that I don’t think that they will blow over without consequences. I’m just pointing out that Hitler was not defeated by civil disobedience. Ruthless organizational discipline wanton sacrifice of human life and total subordination of individual freedom and choice to a common goal was what did him in. Do you see anyone in the antiICE camp with that skill set? Question When did a movement that was wholly and entirely peaceful in modern history win? Challenge they only hurt the optics to people who dont want to support them anyways. No one who believe in equal rights for men and women would stop believing in them because a woman was mean to them. Why are you focused on the violence the protesters are commiting and not that commited by the police and ice? Surely if some small portion of protestors engaging in violence undermines their cause then the vast majority of police/ICE doing so should undermine their cause far more? [removed] Are they not deporting illegal immigrants? What’s to protest? They entered the country illegally so face the consequences. Maybe enter the country legally next time. Honestly the fact they’re doing all of this while waving the flags of other countries is what is hurting them. All over the news people are throwing rocks at the police and setting cars on fire while waving a Mexican flag. Yall say this in every protest. Why do you people think holding hands in prayer circles is gonna cause change. Historically nothing in the world has every changed without a little bit of violence. Did you notice the peaceful protestors and did they win? https//theonion.com/protestersurgednottogivetrumpadministrationpretextforwhatitalreadydoing/ Since you all are here you should read How to Blow Up a Pipeline by Swedish author Andreas Malm. How much do you know about old protest movements? The civil rights movement specifically. The point of a protest is to disrupt. A protest you can ignore is a protest that has failed. Stealing a tea shipment and throwing it in the sea is also disruptive. Protests are messy. Exactly. Acting like thugs gets you treated like thugs. You get what you pay for. FAFO. Yeah I remember when we politely embarrassed the Nazis away with peaceful protests and sternly written editorials. [removed] We are not our body. My stance is quite simple we are not our body not even our brain. My reasoning is as follows There is no unique non fungible aspect of this body which could not be theoretically recreated. For example the idea of teleporting from point A to point B disassembled atomically and remade with atoms somewhere else in the same configuration with all of the same pathways in the brain electrical charges and chemical reactions at the same values. We can also imagine this by thinking of transcendence if our consciousness is a result of our brain and the world is deterministic we could recreate the brain and produce the same results it’s pattern would normally produce therefore we could upload you” into a computer. We have the famous Ship of Thesus at what point do you stop being you? I argue both ships are equally the Ship of Thesus. What matters is the pattern the structure the concept. Same parameters same thing. If I was copied now and recreated 10000 years in the future from my” perspective I would have teleported and time traveled. So what am I? I am a form of logic an abstract object which can be instantiated by any physical object which sufficiently matches my pattern. Like a flower nautilus shell or even galaxy representing the Fibbonacci Sequence. The same way a whole open world game can be represented by bits or scratches in a CD. We wouldn’t say a video game is an unmarked CD it is the grooves the pattern represented on it. Likewise we are the grooves and values that are ingrained on our brain which is simply the host of who we are. That is what we are we are a certain value which can be reinstantiated. Somewhat similar to Plato’s world of Ideals this body is me because it is cast by the shadow of the Ideal me the pattern that I am. Technically we could just say since this body coincidentally matches my pattern it is an instance of me. I am this pile of dominos in the whole chain which the universe is and anywhere in that chain which falls exactly like it has now would also be me. Thus we are a soul not a body. That soul is our very logic our pattern. Anything that does or does not every single thing I would or wouldn’t do and for every reason I would or wouldn’t do it is me. To change my view simply I require some sort of non fungible aspect of this specific life or body which could not theoretically be recreated. Something unique to this body which nothing could ever feasibly replicate now or in the future. Edit so in conclusion a few parts of my view was changed. Not the overarching view but some specifics. For example if a clone existed it would diverge thus not have the same values and its atoms would have different values to start with. So if I am all of my values then that would include every single parameter of atoms thus the clone can’t be me. So it depends on what values we are deciding that we are. If we include physical values to define self then naturally something without those wouldn’t be us. Though I’m not sure this changes my view that much it did show me a logical way to combat my view which I see as a valid option. Alternatively accepting we are more of a formula than a pattern as there could be variety to us allowing for divergence despite being the same soul. To change my view simply I require some sort of non fungible aspect of this specific life or body which could not theoretically be recreated. It would be impossible for a copy of whatever you are however you is defined to occupy the exact same time and space as you are right now in your current body. The copy would not be subject to the same environmental forces upon the instant of creation and therefore could never exist as a true copy of you except at a nonmeasurable time point t=0. A video game isn’t just the pattern of grooves on it it also must be in a format where the grooves can be read. The grooves and cd together are the video game the very premise of your argument for soul / self is wrong you have the supposition that your soul or self can never be recreated... why? a monkey on a typewriter given infinite time will recreate shakespeare. if your body is replicable as you suggest so is your self there are an infinite amount of 1s and 0s in the world and its absolutely possible that someone who looks identical to you has the same name even and makes all the same choices and feels all the exact same things can exist at some point in human history if they havent already. It sounds like youre just talking about copies. Just because we might theoretically be able to one day make an exact copy of you that copy is not you. How can we tell? Because if we didnt destroy your current body then your current body would still exist and the clones body would exist separately. You would still experience the world from your current body while the exact duplicate would experience the world from its body. The clone would think its you because from its perspective it woke up with all your memories and experiences. If someone cloned you perfectly at birth and then gave the clone to a different family to raise your development would diverge significantly. If you were to meet up and compare your lives when you were in your forties the most you could say is I know how I would have turned out if I was raised exactly the way my clone was raised. But you wouldnt consider this separate entity you. Similarly if you were to create an exact digital copy of yourself and put it into a simulation of the world youd be able to see how youd react in whatever the simulation presented you with. But you would not be in the computer. All of this is to say that any exact duplicate of you first needs to have a you to recreate. That version of you is the one created by your body and brain together. The connections you have in your brain your wiring has to exist FIRST before any duplicates can be made. I appreciate the ship of thesus reference. Ive actually given that one some thought. Now Ill give you another scenario that may be helpful. Suppose there was rather than a teleportation device a copymachine that would produce an exact copy of you. This sort of thing was toyed with in the movie The Prestige which perhaps you might like to watch if you havent already. I think there was also a star trek tng episode where the transporter made a copy What would happen? There would be you and your copy but only you would continue to experience your stream of consciousness. Thats whats missing in a lot of your thinking. You are looking at who you are from the perspective of others rather than looking at who you are from your own perspective. An outsider wouldnt be able to distinguish you from the copy. But you would. Although funny thing in the movie the Prestige its not known to the user of the copymachine who the copy is and who the original is when using the device With a copymachine your stream of consciousness would not transfer to the copy. You would not experience what the copy experiences. You would continue to experience what the original body experiences. If the original body perished your stream of consciousness would terminate even though the copys stream of consciousness would continue. This of course raises certain questions. You know like what exactly is doing the experiencing. Spiritualists posit the existence of an immaterial soul. Yet I think this to be an unnecessary complication. It is simpler to infer that it is the matter itself i.e. the brain that is doing the experiencing. While it may seem strange to think that matter is capable of this it is quite clear already that something is capable because we know that it is happening. That matter can do this we can consider to be a fundamental property of matter like gravity or electromagnetism that seems to have no apparent explanation or reason for having the property. This explanation is more likely than an immaterial soul because it is simpler. One issue that i see is that this theory does explain how you persist over time. Unlike scratches in a CD the grooves in our brain are constantly changing. Your pattern is not the same as it was 1 second ago. I think you need to amend your view to allow you to be a persistent entity. I am the same person i was 1 second ago even if there have been some changes since then. so i am not the pattern but the set of patterns over time. But not just that sent of patterns had events transpired differently a different pattern would have immerged. So the set of all possible patterns over time. I argue both ships are equally the Ship of Thesus. What matters is the pattern the structure the concept. Same parameters same thing. The 2 will diverge. the 2 copies will have different experiences and then be different. what then? there will be two people. you will not be conscious of the others experiences. Both will claim to be the true you and neither will have any more claim then the other. Neither has a strong claim to be the true you so i think the theory breaks down. Neither is you. but then what if we dont make the identical copy? Clone A is not you clone B is not you. Take clone B out of the equation. we are left with you != you and thats a contradiction. you cant be the set of all patterns over time because there are many patterns and 1 you. To change my view simply I require some sort of non fungible aspect of this specific life or body which could not theoretically be recreated. Something unique to this body which nothing could ever feasibly replicate now or in the future. Given that youve already implicitly said that teleportation and cloning arent unfeasible enough to change your view by using them in your main argument Id say that this requirement is impossible. For example the idea of teleporting from point A to point B disassembled atomically and remade with atoms somewhere else in the same configuration with all of the same pathways in the brain electrical charges and chemical reactions at the same values. This is not feasible. I cant prove that it wont *ever* be feasible in the future because its impossible to prove that. Your body contains your pattern and there is no way currently nor any knowntobepossible way that were just not ready for to replicate it. So in a way you *are* your body/brain because theres no way to have the same pattern in a different vessel. Out of interest what makes you continuous through time? Why is the you from five minutes ago considered to be the same you reading this? If at some point in the future they were able to prove that souls don’t exist that our consciousness was completely a product of our brain chemistry would you still feel this way? I agree that the idea of you” is a logical form in the same way that a table is a table and not a bunch of separate atoms but I don’t follow that that means that our bodies are somehow separate from what we” are If I can be copied 100% accurately I cannot be in two places at once therefore the copy is not me. It doesnt matter if that copy happens slowly Ship of Thesus and I am slowly destroyed. As a matter of curiosity how many kidneys do you have? How much RAM do you have? How many pages do you take up? How tall are you? If someone made a duplicate of you and that duplicate murdered someone by your logic youd be equally guilty as the duplicate as youd both be the same person. Or would the fact the other body did it after undergoing different experiences to your body mean you arent guilty? Im not sure I follow why are you presuming that this extra self exists at all? To change my view simply I require some sort of non fungible aspect of this specific life or body which could not theoretically be recreated. Why is this a requirement? Why do you assume we must be unique? If I created an exact duplicate—down to the atomic level—of my teapot wouldn’t we agree that I now have a second teapot that is identical to the first? Similarly if we duplicate your body we haven’t somehow disproved that your body is you we have just created an identical duplicate of you. You can burn a videogame into multiple CDs you can put your consciousness in multiple bodies. Why isnt the brain you? To change my view simply I require some sort of non fungible aspect of this specific life or body which could not theoretically be recreated. Something unique to this body which nothing could ever feasibly replicate now or in the future. Then theres no you either. Even platos forms are dependent on you thinking them. Edit you are just playing with categories! In fact theres no videogame! you the videogame isnt the disc its the gruves. Where did those grooves come from Platos form Nope the were programmed .... The videogame is glued from bits and bites. You just chose to stop at the collection of those bits that makeup the game Also you evolved from nothing. The fact that you might be able to transport this videogame/you in different discs/bodies doesnt mean its like platonic form we are a soul not a body. That soul is our very logic our pattern. Anything that does or does not every single thing I would or wouldn’t do and for every reason I would or wouldn’t do it is me. So...what are people born with severe cognitive impairments that prevent them from using logic or recognizing patterns and that perhaps prevent them from forming anything near to a cogent thought? Do they have no soul? I don’t believe in a soul therefore your view is unfounded to my existence. WE are not a collective conscience. We are each individual entities moving through our own fields of energy and interacting with the world around us. So if YOU want to just be a soul that’s fine but WE are whatever WE want to be. How long could you think without your brain? Can I agree? Yes we are a soul which is everlasting. Bodies die and erode. Great post. China has AI building roads and running mines — and we’re still fighting over TikTok bans. We can’t afford another Trump term. Look I don’t care what side of the aisle you’re on — but we’ve got to stop pretending like the next few years don’t matter. China is pulling ahead. Way ahead. Not just with chatbots. I’m talking fullon AIdriven infrastructure. • They’ve got fully automated mining operations already live in Inner Mongolia and other regions run by AIpowered trucks drills and monitoring systems. • In Hebei and Sichuan roads are being designed paved and maintained using AI logistics sensors and drones — with minimal human labor. • Their companies are pushing ChatGPTlevel models like Baidu’s ERNIE 4.0 and rolling them into schools hospitals and even military systems. • Meanwhile here? We’re still arguing about whether AI is too woke” and if TikTok is secretly turning teens into communists. Let’s be real — Trump had four years and none of this was a priority. Science agencies got gutted international talent was pushed out and tech policy came down to memes and trade war tweets. We’ve already lost time. If we give him another term? That’s 3.5 more years of division distraction and zero actual innovation strategy — while China keeps building faster smarter and more centralized. Whatever you think of Biden at least CHIPS Act + IRA are actual steps toward rebuilding the U.S. tech base. We need more of that — not another round of chaos and ownthelibs politics. This is the Cold War of technology. And we’re losing ground while fighting each other over cable news BS China is pulling ahead. Way ahead. Not just with chatbots. I’m talking fullon AIdriven infrastructure. • They’ve got fully automated mining operations already live in Inner Mongolia and other regions run by AIpowered trucks drills and monitoring systems. • In Hebei and Sichuan roads are being designed paved and maintained using AI logistics sensors and drones — with minimal human labor. • Their companies are pushing ChatGPTlevel models like Baidu’s ERNIE 4.0 and rolling them into schools hospitals and even military systems. Do you have a source for any of this? Because Ive not heard anything of the kind until now. China is a very closed society and the US is a very open society. Everyone can see what problems the US is having at all times while it is often difficult to see what problems China is facing. China does have serious problems though. They have a demographic time bomb on par with other east asian countries like Japan and as a country they are still very poor GDP per capita in china is on par with Montenegro. Romania has a higher GDP per capita than China. The government has been pumping the economy with serious amounts of debt for going on 25 years and theyve had serious fraud problems underlying the economy for a good while. China on a whole is decades behind the west in military capacity and technology. People tend to compare the heavily curated version of Chinese society they see on the media/internet with the nearly totally open picture they see of the US. Its an unfair comparison. What do you propose happens? Lets say Trump is impeached and removed from power somehow. Everyone else that was handpicked by him and the Heritage foundation to be in his cabinet is still there. And the entire Republican party conforms to his whims Trump was able to stop the Republican party from voting on the 2024 border bill by tweeting about it when he wasnt even in office. Just going to combat this statement China is pulling ahead” No they aren’t. China faces imminent collapse by 2040 unless they expand their borders due to population collapse. Their best aircraft is an F22 ripoff as legit as their TEMU store items. Just because you watch tik toks of them slapping LED panels on 30 year old tech doesn’t mean they are over there living in the future. China has *some things* that Id argue are either on par or slightly ahead of Western cultures. However China is a tightly controlled market with a zerosum mentality that has hampered its future potential growth. They are most akin to a sprinter running against marathon runners at the moment they will absolutely pull ahead in the short term but their long term is looking dicey. This is not a slam of China merely that they have a lot of problems to work out in order to truly supplant other countries. They are investing in the right fields but they are lacking in some critical cultural and socioeconomic factors that give them staying power from my understanding of the issues. They may very well fix these issues but I do not see that coming without a reckoning of other factors in their economy. This isnt a Trump problem. Its the product of our very deliberate 2 party system based on money and career politicians. China plays the long game because their system allows for it. No need to consult with the poll data or worry about political pressure the state is so powerful they can afford to look decades ahead. Not saying this is superior in every way or that I particularly like it but its a feature of their system. The US system is about pay to play but only runs for short term goals b/c of the parties in power work on short timelines. Citizens United ensured that moneyed corporate interests are basically all that matters. Corporations are self interested and work on much shorter time horizons....mostly quarterly earnings. So the corporations are working on short timelines in the name of profit and the politicians are influenced by the corporations all while their own reelection happens once every few years. So instead of doing anything meaningful the US wasted time ensuring that short term goals are met and reelection is likely. Anything done on longer time horizons is nonsensical under this system. By your logic do you support Trump’s One Big Beautiful Bill Act? It includes trillions of dollars of spending and allows AI companies to do whatever they want for the next decade to win the Cold War of technology” as you put it. Personally I don’t think being faster than China to implement AI infrastructure is our biggest priority right now. What did we gain by beating Russia to the moon? It’s a silly dickswinging contest that costs trillions of dollars to enter I’d rather we focus on immigration and healthcare and existing infrastructure instead. I think this has a lot of built in assumptions about how bad it would be if the US was no longer the leader in x or y industry or maybe even the top of the global economy. I don’t think it’ll be that bad and I think it’s a bad use of resources to try to outpace a country with growing power and influence The USA is the center of the Universe of AI. There is more investment and accomplishment in AI coming out of the San Francisco area than _all of china and europe combined_. Just private investment in the USA is more than 4x that of all AI investment in China $470 billion+ compared to $120 billion. Many of the developments in China that you mention occurred under the Biden administration. Until about a week ago the most prominent member of the Trump government was Elon Musk noted Tech Bro. It would be hard to find someone with their finger in more AI and AIadjacent pies. Is there Many of the developments in China that you mention occurred under the Biden administration. Until about a week ago the most prominent member of the Trump government was Elon Musk noted Tech Bro. It would be hard to find someone with their finger in more AI and AIadjacent pies. I’m talking fullon AIdriven infrastructure. • They’ve got fully automated mining operations already live in Inner Mongolia and other regions run by AIpowered trucks drills and monitoring systems Horseshit. Citation needed China is not pulling ahead they’re still catching up. Also most of the societal division is on the internet. In real life technology is still progressing at a fast pace. The best ai companies are American so I have no idea what youre trying to say here. Do you want them to be best best? More best? As for TikTok ban that was Bidens doing. My man the Dems could not stop talking about LGBTQ and couldnt define a woman. Nothing of substance was happening. with Trump we at least have a chance to move to a balanced economy that is less reliant on China. Under establishment rule the US will be an almost 100% service economy that can be easily dogwalked by china Blue is long term solution focus. Red is short term solution focus. When red win something is deeply wrong. China is winning and we cannot afford the long term way of lets reduce carbon emission when China doesnt care about it. we need less government intervention so AI companies can do their stuff. The government will not lead the AI revolution private industry is. we cannot afford the blue team now. Immigration violations should have a 1year statute of limitations Author TardigradePanopticonPost Text If someone has been living peacefully in the country for more than a year since their visa expired or they entered illegally then they should by default have access to legal residency status. This would eliminate the worst outcomes of our immigration system such as people being deported back” to countries they left as a child. It would also make it easier for many immigrants to become fullfledged members of our society without the open borders” so feared by some people. A year is plenty of time for us to enforce our laws while it’s quick enough that we wouldn’t have people living huge chunks of their lives under the fear of the government. Sure but something like this would probably have the discovery rule attached to it meaning the statute wouldn’t begin to rule until the violation is discovered. The discovery rule is usually applied to things like this where a violation of a particular right or law is not open or obvious. The problems with this is that violent crime and not living peacefully is not the main reason that illegal immigration is illegal. The main reason is that it can damage the economy labour market strain on social services national security threats human rights concerns etc. So your argument of if they are living peacefully should not be the biggest consideration for this view. Also doing this would incentivise illegal immigration hugely Wouldn’t that incentivize coming here illegally? So hypothetically one administration could relax immigration and border enforcement for years allowing millions of people into the country. And the next administration couldn’t do anything about it? If people don’t want to live chunks of their lives under fear of the government perhaps they should come here legally and/or don’t overstay. How do you start the clock? Do we take the word of the person That would incentivize an underground railroad type situation and a black market of hiding people for a year. Also when would the clock start? that would cause a lot more people try to sneak in and stay a year. businesses would be built on smuggling people in and keep them hidden. or pretending to offer this as a service and then stranding people I get why you want this. But its not a practical solution. Why should immigration rules exist at all? Aside from barring entry for criminals and terrorists what do these laws accomplish except to punish workers for being born on the wrong side of the border? These laws exist to create an exploitable class of workers to reduce overall wages and increase profits. They should be repealed. We all want better lives it should be done legally with respect to the country we claim to admire and want to be apart of. This would necessitate a huge tightening of current rules. Currently one the incentives to not overstay your visa is that you get a travel ban of 2x the time you’ve overstayed when you next enter/apply for something else. So people have an incentive to not pull any tricks so as to avoid future complications. If you could just wait it out a year everyone would try that. Few people would leave at the expiration of their visa. So the government would have to start raiding houses and workplaces of people whose visas have just expired to stop them hitting the one year mark. Basically I agree with your idea in principle. But one year is way too short for this. I would agree with 510 year amnesty. Spending 10 years breaking the law every day is not better than spending 6 months breaking the law every day. Its worse. [deleted] As others are pointing out how do you verify date of entry? You are better off loosening residency and allowing these entries via a port of entry. That way you can do some basic vetting. Criminal record current immigration status etc. Record them as having entered for accurate census accurate records. Tie residency to the things its currently tied to in order to maintain it and after X number of years naturalize them. That just seems like a golden ticket for human smugglers. Get people inside hide them for a year profit. The easiest way of not living under fear of the government is simply living there legally why would you need a law to circumvent this? No because illegal immigration isnt a crime they committed then its one theyre continuously committing until they leave. maybe 10 years Too much of an incentive to do that. Youd have anyone on a work visa trying to do that Sounds like something an illegal immigrant would say Antiwhite racism is not a serious nor prevalent issue in the United States. Author EarlyPossibility367Post Text First off let me start with saying that Id oppose and stand against any *actual* anti white racism. But I just simply dont think its prevelant in American society throughout the vast majority of the nation. Do people who hate white people exist? Of course but not the point to which we have a serious and persistent issue of anti white racism that is pervasive. The main argument I have here is the weakness of the other sides arguments. I feel like those who believe anti white racism is pervasive in America dont really have strong examples. Many will claim either examples which the backing for is unclear or outright false examples. For instance many will say DEI is anti white racism but wont actually tell us how. Or for instance theyll use the example of the lefts objection to the Afrikaner refugees from South Africa. But that would be more easily and directly explainable by pointing to the left not believing they had valid refugee cases and also Trumps spurning of refugees the left *does* believe have valid cases. Overall its just a generally unsubstantiated point in my view. It is much easier to get a contract with the state of California if you belong to a minority group. Although a white female falls into this group so that doesn’t qualify as anti white. But a white male is at a major disadvantage for consideration. I dont know man I went to a pretty big university in the North East and heard some shocking antiwhite stuff from professors. It sounded like what youd hear in 1940s Alabama just with the races flipped. If that type of attitude is allowed in universities then you can make a very strong case its institutional and prevalent. The argument is how could you expect white students to get a fair or equal education when an attitude of racist beliefs are tolerated in some departments and even promoted in others? Im starting my doctorate and if I was not white I could qualify for another 30% scholarship on my tuition because there are scholarships available for poc but I can only qualify for academic scholarships theres lots of problems that stem from antiwhite sentiments. in a very similar way to how young men are alienated by the downplaying of their problems having continuous reinforcement in the zeitgeist that your problems are secondary and to be ignored will often lead to you separating yourself from those causes that contain those messages. people holding up signs saying kill whitey or die cis scum do real damage to the things that the people holding the signs were trying to advocate for. I think the issue is that a lot of reddit type people are extremely sheltered so racism against whites is foreign concept in the nice neighborhoods theyre from. But in reality a white kid in a predominantly black neighborhood is going to deal with waaaay more racism on average than a black kid in a predominantly white neighborhood. Lots of good points being made here but I’ll add one that I didn’t see being discussed. Whiteness” I use that term as a placeholder for the idea of how we can refer to white people in whatever terms we want with impunity. For a while now—and particularly during the BLM peak—there have been books cable news discussions university courses expert’s analyses and other venues discussing how whiteness” is a huge societal problem. They could use other words like racial power dynamics” but they choose whiteness.” I know people hate it when it’s said but I think they hate it because it’s a clear point that’s hard to refute If you substitute whiteness” with any other race it would OBVIOUSLY be racist. And I know white people are the majority in the US but it doesn’t make it ok to call whiteness a problem. And it doesn’t end there. As a society we can casually joke about white people being Karens or being bad dancers or not seasoning their food—and admittedly those aren’t serious issues. But you can’t make ANY jokes about any other groups without it being racist.” We’ve even had it programmed into AI. You can ask ChatGPT to tell you a joke about white people and it will. Take the exact same prompt but say black” people and it will refuse because it would be racist. AI is just a reflection of its environment. Why do we accept such racism against white people? I think we’ve become accustomed to casual racism against white people to the point that we’re blind to it. Lastly famous people get away with saying AWFUL things about white people and aren’t cancelled for it. Remember Nick Cannon a few years ago? He got fired from his job as a TV show host for perpetuating some common antiSemitic conspiracy theories. He eventually apologized to the Jewish community met with Jewish faith leaders and was reinstated. But during that same podcast interview where he said that he also said that all white people are driven by deficiency” they’re a little less than” people with more melanin said they’re closer to animals” and that they’re savages.” Those comments got overlooked. It was just the antiSemitic comments that needed to be addressed. If ANY person said anything remotely close to that about black Asian Latino etc. that would be the end for them. No coming back. No redemption. And it happens all the time. You can be as racist as you want against white people and nobody will blink. Anyway I’m sure I’ll take some heat for this but I think it’s worth bringing up. It’s very widespread and most people either don’t notice or don’t care. I’m very confident that this tacit endorsement of antiwhite racism will come back to bite us in the butt as a society if we don’t cut it out. Its easier to see it when you actually legitimately experience it. Part of the confusion is that if you are white you may actually find it perpetuated by other white people who want to be the only good white person in the space. What happened to me \ I went through a lot growing up and wanted to help others have an easier time than I did so I wanted to work in nonprofits. I got to my target organization as I was turning 30. I was immediately treated like I didnt really belong because I was white. You cant understand what our clients go through. I had been a client. Youre a blonde white lady so you probably only have blonde white lady friends. this wasnt reflective of my friend group Whenever I made a perceived mistake a person in senior leadership a white woman would start rumors about how I didnt care about whichever community had been overlooked by my mistake in her mind this would be something like responding to an email in the morning instead of when it came in at 11PM. I requested my team build a culture of assuming positive intent because I have ADHD and sometimes might miss things due to symptoms however competent I am and however much I care. I was told this wasnt an appropriate request because historically people of color havent gotten to have positive intent assumed of them. On my first day I was told by my white male boss that people were upset I had been hired because I am a white woman. I was 29 and finally starting at the org Id wanted to work for my whole career. During a training they announced that Black and brown staff could step out if they wanted because what would be shown could be triggering. The video caused a PTSD flashback for me because it was very close to an experience Id had and I had to leave the room in tears walking past all the management in the org. It was all incredibly dehumanizing. While these are very personal examples it does show what the DEIworkshop type culture can lead to. Instead of nuance theres an assumption that all white people live these really stable lives and only come into advocacy work because they want to be seen as good. Not through deep roots in a cause. It creates hostile environments. And I never experienced so many people being hateful on the basis of whiteness as in the wake of Trump and the DEI industrys response. Previously there would be talk about white privilege. It might take longer for people to trust. But it started to become more institutionalized. And come from people in power leading to impacts on resources and financial stability. Enforced also by other white people wanting to be the exception. While this is just one organization I cant believe it would be the \*only\* one and it was quite a large org. This doesnt mean Im in with the antiwoke antiDEI crowd. But I do think these are problems worth being cleareyed about. Serious would be subjective. But to claim its not prevalent? Go to a university go on social media hell do some introspection. There is exactly one race that it is okay to criticize and condemn for the color of their skin in the US and its white people. It’s why Trump won and that’s a pretty serious problem. Even just today I was watching people on the news saying that the reason Kamala lost was because of all the racists that didn’t vote for her. Pretty sure that’s not how you win people over. Nobody wants to be called a racist. Calling white people racist is racist and it’s a big problem. I have an answer and an anecdote. In a democracy any attempt perceived to be intended to racially alienate the majority of voters is both doomed to fail and places the rest of the minority agenda at risk. It is serious in that it is counterproductive and gives oxygen to actual racists. A few months ago made a zoom call on behalf of the nonprofit I ran to ask for support from a large regional philanthropic organization. Our organization is dedicated to the support of people with developmental disabilities in a poor rural community. The person on the other end of the call told us to not bother with an application because they *only fund organizations which look like the people they serve*. My community is 85% white and like my son is 15% developmentally disabled. They denied our application explicitly because I am a white guy. Their philanthropy has nothing to do with the underlying causes but only to nonwhite leaders. It is the dictionary definition of institutional racism. I announced my retirement to the board of directors that week. Someone else can bust their ass doing good work. Antiwhite racism is extremely obvious if you look for double standards in what people consider racism. Any criticism of refugees or immigrants even illegal immigrants is *immediately* labeled as racism by many on the left. But those same people yourself included will give a hundred reasons why the white south African refugees shouldnt be let in and why its not racist to say so. Voter ID laws are considered to be abjectly racist by many on the left despite applying equally to everybody regardless of race they say that if you really examine the motivation behind them and the predicted effects that there is actually a secret racist motive behind them. Meanwhile DEI and affirmative action policies which *explicitly exist for the purpose of treating people differently based on their race* are totally fine and not racist at all even when the effects of these policies on white people are almost exclusively negative. When a randon white person wears the wrong hairstyle its racism and white supremacy at work but when AOC stands up in front of the whole world and says theres too many white people in congress nobody blinks twice. The left loves to talk about far right dogwhistles which are super secret code words that Republicans use to avoid getting caught being racist etc. But the left is out here preaching on the streets about white priveledge and toxic whiteness and how white people are perpetuating white supremacy by just existing and talking openly about how there are too many white people in x and how necessary white exclusionary safe spaces are and how you cant be racist against white people because prejudice plus power and etc etc etc I disagree. Antiwhite racism and a general contempt for white men especially is becoming a radioactive issue that is killing the American left. If someone brings up an issue that impacts primarily men or white men the replies from liberals will overwhelmingly be scoffing dismissal personal attacks minimization and deflection. This would not be tolerated with any other group. That doesnt mean other groups dont have it worse or that white men should be the primary focus but the level of to use a lefty buzzword microaggressions a white guy has to deal with in lefty spaces is actually pretty unreal. From personal experience I can see why so many white men end up drifting towards the right. Theyre wrong on policy but at least theyre welcoming. Racialbased admissions in American Academia was a big problem. And it didnt matter who it was for or against it harmed everyone it touched. When applicants apply to universities theyre divided into four categories. 1. Will likely be a top student. 2. Will likely be very successful. 3. Will likely be successful. 4. Probably cannot succeed. Ideally you want to admit as many as possible from 1 2 and 3 in that order without admitting any from 4. However the AAUs policies mandated that minority students should be admitted over white students to maintain a diverse student population. To achieve this the following happened * All students in category 1 were admitted. * All minority students and some nonminority students were admitted from category 2. * Many minority students and few nonminority students were admitted from category 3. * No students were admitted from category 4. In order to maintain a diverse population of students the best universities were admitting marginallyqualified and underqualified minority students over more qualified white students whom wouldve been good candidates for lessprestigious institutions which in turn. would have to draw minority students from a pool otherwise eminently qualified for the next tier of institutions so on and so forth. To give you an idea of how bad this was at the time only 26%28% of admitted black students were able to graduate from all universities across the USA. The results were that qualified students were being turned away in favour of unqualified students and that minorities were overwhelmingly represented at the bottom of the class. Now while racebased Affirmative Action is no longer permitted in the USA its been replaced with the rhetoric of Diversity Equity and Inclusion which seems to be pushing for the same things as Affirmative Action. Which means this will likely continue. Ive been told that as a white male I must be racist no matter what I think Believe say do practice because I was born white and therefore am born a racist and can never not be racist.. feels pretty shitty to be told that ngl 😅 Harvard Supreme Court case showed that white and Asian. Applicants that scored significantly higher on tests and grades than black applicants had lower admission rates. Litterally white applicants in the top 10% of academics had a 15.3% admission rate. Black applicats in the top 10% had 56.1% admission rate and in the bottom end the 4th decile meaning worse grades and tests than 60% still had a 12.8% admission rate. https//imgur.com/a/VtLISER That was a post I saw on Reddit like a week or so ago. Thats the issue its not that white people face MORE racism its that people say shit like white people are inherently evil or white people are violent animals and theres 0 push back. A guy in that thread was like ..yo this is racist and he got dogpiled lol. AntiWhite racism is a big problem in the US not because its common but because White Americans are the majority ethnic group. Minority rights are a relativly new historical developement. Minority protections arent taken seriously outside developed western countries like the US the US only started taking them seriously after the Civil rights movement half a centuary ago. Minority rights in a democracy requires that the majority have a certain amount of empathy and principle that transcends their own ethnic group. Thats a hard ask on a good day but it gets much much harder when the majority ethnic group is being abused. What keeps antiwhite racism from being a serious or prevalent issue? Basically its that there just arent a lot of antiwhite racists with the power to do much about it. I would say its absolutely a serious problem within certain *very specific and limited* contexts. For instance if youre white and your SO is a person of color and their family is really racist against white people thats probably serious problem for you. Not to the same degree as most instances of racism against a PoC but a problem nonetheless. But its not a problem within a wider societal context at the moment because its not like its inescapable. *Maybe* you run into it into a couple very specific places but its highly unlikely that you cant fairly easily avoid any real consequences. There isnt a really a system of oppression as it were behind it. But heres the thing that can absolutely change. Give a bunch of antiwhite racists power over culture or academia or political policy and that shit can change real fucking quick. So it could be said that any trend of antiwhite racism does need to be treated seriously not for the threat it poses in the immediate but rather the longterm. You just generally dont want to empower or embolden racist people to do racist things even if its not a glaring issue at the moment. Of course theres about a hundred different ways that can go wrong when were talking about this level of power dynamics. So its really a debate about whether it does more harm than good to fight it or if you should always nip it in the bud lest it spiral out of control at some point. from the wiki page In 2016 former soldier Micah Xavier Johnson perpetrated a shooting in Dallas during a peaceful march of blacks with the aim of killing police officers as revenge following the recent shootings of black men by law enforcement. Among the motivations was the hatred that Johnson felt for whites. An investigation into his online activities uncovered his interest in Black nationalist groups. Dallas Observer noted several similarities between Johnson and Mark Essex a discharged U.S. Navy sailor and Black Panther who committed two attacks against White civilians and police officers on December 31 1972 and January 7 1973 in New Orleans. The attacks left nine people dead including five police officers. In 2017 a black gunman named Kori Ali Muhammad shot and killed three white men in Fresno California during the 2017 Fresno shootings. He went on a shooting spree due to his hatred for whites. In 2024 a black man named Joshua Cobb from Trenton New Jersey was charged for threatening to kill white people. so now that weve established that whites ARE murdered and brutalized for the colour of their skin i guess the question is what amount of people is an acceptable number to be murdered or brutalized for the colour of their skin? for me that number is 0. whats the number for you? I think it’s *highly* dependent on your social circle and community. In ultra liberal areas it’s been a very subtle and slow burn of antiwhite sentiment in the last 20 years accelerating a bit since 2020. It’s common to hear people openly calling white people in power mediocre” with no real justification. It’s also common in progressive circles to say of course it’s a white person” when there is a mass shooting or something. Another common phrase is white women are the worst”. These individual sentiments aren’t really systemic so I wouldn’t put them on even close to the same level of racism that other groups experience and I think overall white people get more opportunities and benefits of the doubt. HOWEVER I do think that white children in progressive areas hearing these things over and over may develop an internalized hatred for their race and/or never feel they’re deserving of their achievements since after all per the adults around them white achievement is nothing to be celebrated. This is just my experience in San Francisco in the Bay Area white people are the not the majority. Usually ppl who are white are immigrants of some kind. Also this does not apply to everyone just a good chunk of ppl. Most poc in the bay are so nice and amazing! you can just tell by the energy— ppl will just assume you are racist or a bigot before saying one word to you. So you feel the need to walk on eggshells. There’s an unachievable good white person you’re supposed to be. It’s exhausting and performative. Understandable it’s likely someone who looks like me was racist to them but the assumptions simply based on the fact that they do not like white people is racism. being racist is a problem that should not grow or be ignored only bc someone is white. I’d argue that poc directing undeserved hatred to white people guilting ppl for their skin color and their ancestors wrong doings and literally removing them from their social groups will only further divide people and causes more racism. So it’s definitely a prevalent issue. I’m an East Asian on the west coast and antiwhite racism is a prevalent and serious issue though particularly more gendered against white men as opposed to white women. I won’t speak on the racism against white people in America but as someone labeled as whiteadjacent” in many areas of life I and many others are excluded in many spaces and programs supporting academic financial and economic mobility needs. And if my needs are invalidated on the basis of my white adjacency then I’d say that antiwhite racism is a prevalent enough issue that could be expanded to those who are partially white or not even white at all. The problem with OPs premise is that most of the clickbait ways that antiwhite racism” manifests are in the context of affirmative action programs which don’t really even exist anymore and DEI. Most people certainly most Redditors don’t understand either of these concepts. And to the degree that they do they massively overestimate their impact since they are usually using anecdotal evidence me/my kid didn’t get that scholarship to account for their own relative mediocrity which they’re in denial about. You know how hard you work. You achieve things you want to be proud of I got a 1500 on my SATs!”. And you think you’re entitled to be rewarded for all that. And then you don’t get that reward. And some Black kid maybe even a Black kid with lower SAT scores does get rewarded and now you have a story to tell about why where you’re a victim. And what’s great about this story is it preserves your deservingness — your little precious angel is still special and not just one of millions of other kids who did well in school and have extra curriculars and are all competing for the same few slots at elite colleges and topranked state schools. And you don’t have to think that maybe the whole system is unfair to everyone — that would be radical socialism! And you don’t have to think about the massive disadvantages that other groups face and what is required to redress these wrongs. Instead it’s simple some brown kid stole my kids spot. These people will always tell you they’re not racist and they’re against all that past racism. But guess what? There are 5k spots in the incoming class and today whites get 65% of the spots and because of affirmative action Blacks get 10%. If there had been no racism and no legacy of discrimination and therefore no need for affirmative action then Blacks would have an even higher percentage of the spots and whites would have an even smaller one. And you’d be at an even greater disadvantage. There is no question about whether white people already have an advantage. The only question is how big that advantage *should* be. Not serious debatable but Id genuinely consider it if we had a real discussion. Not prevalent where have you been hiding for so long? Its everywhere. People in general **love** to hate and straight white men are the most acceptable group to hate right now so of course its going to be everywhere. Seriously go looking and see some of the vile shit people say about an entire race of people. You dont even have to leave reddit. Any nonwhite person can say whatever they want about white people and face no consequences whatsoever. I personally have been called cracker redneck hick etc but nobody really cares because I’m a yt man”. White people are told that they have no culture and that everything they have has been appropriated. Certain hair styles clothing styles questions and words are off limits to white people regardless of context. White people are the only race that is okay to discriminate against. Not only is it an issue its the most important issue anti White racism is the only accepted racism and its usually violent black on White violent crime in the US is 10x that of vice versa. So yeah its a very serious problem and the longer you negate the reality of it. Hope that helps. I think it can be argued that it’s necessary to curb the effects of systemic racism which has wrecked entire generations as Ibram X. Kendi argues discrimination today is necessary to reverse the discrimination of the past” but it is just objectively true that white men are the sole demographic that it is institutionally and culturally acceptable to marginalize. It’s OK to punch up” and all that. But if half the things that are said about white people were said about any other demographic or if hiring rules for same were implemented toward other races… people would rightly be calling that shit racist AF. Im going to agree and disagree with you. Im sadly you will not change my view of it. For the most part everybody gets along that is the older generation. We grew up with racism and it gradually faded away till we understand that were all pretty much the same. And in the great political divide about a dozen years ago where race with the forefront of everything. From a presidential election you are racist if you didnt vote for Obama even if you just didnt believe in what he was putting out there and it just got worse. You have a political party now that calls you everything under the sun for not believing in what they believe in. And do to that racism has resurfaced with our younger generation more than ever. Morgan Freeman said it right. If you want to get rid of racism stop putting race into every sentence. Instead of saying a black man just say a man. We get that there was a racial divide in the birth of our nation. But we as a nation have grown since then. If youre basing your hatred over something that happened over a hundred years ago youre the problem not everybody else. Would it be fair to say affirmative action is antiwhite? DEI is one thing thats just reaching out to minorities. But affirmative action is actually favoring people based on race. Also there are very public moments of antiwhite racism that on their own arent a big deal but its weird that nobody feels the need to denounce them. For example there was that case where a Boston mayor was hosting a holiday party for nonwhite city councils. On its own not a big deal its just a party like the kind your office would have after hours. But could you imagine if it was black city councils being excluded? There would at least be a public backlash. The systemic antiwhite racism isnt the exclusion of white people from a party its the fact that society generally sees stuff like that as ok. Whereas if it was excluding blacks jews asians it would be a big deal. do you agree that if a white person says the nword they risk being fired from their job kicked out of their school and/or being socially ostracized while other races do not risk such things? many will say DEI is anti white racism Because it is. Ill give you just one small but revealing example. A frequently used DEI micro aggression training video which is shared as party of mandatory training at various companies depicts white employees as mosquitos attacking minority employees. The narrator describes these employees as being similar to disease carrying mosquitos. The end of the video depicts the Black employee killing the mosquito with a firearm. Blatantly racist and antiWhite but also wildly ironic that a video educating on socalled micro aggressions e.g. complimenting a Black woman on her hair is engaging in macro aggressions by dehumanizing White employees as disease carrying mosquitos that need to be shot. It’s literally the only legal bias that’s written into law with AA. The Wall Street journal had an article where they bragged about new hires being largely non white and educational institutions are full of ppl who think slavery is the reason the west advanced despite slavery being prevalent all across the world and different cultures. I hate white people. There are too many white people in the multicultural room. She got a standing ovation. The absurd thing is obviously you may have a right to experience and share in ANY culture based on where you were born genetics parents NOT the color of your skin. But no one got that far in the thinking department that day. We need to segregate black children from white. All the above are things Ive heard in the past 5 years. Its not the worst. MY issue is just own it for what it is antiwhite racism. You can say that you are only being *racial* as it is commonly accepted although I dont agree with it that either a majority or position of power needs to be in place to unlock the ability for your cells to be *racist* but if the synonyms for your behavior align with things like hate do you really feel better? Its the ULTIMATE form of iM NoT tOucChinG you........... Sure lets keep thinking this way so that we can keep losing elections. Hi. I dont know if antiwhite racism is prevalent or serious in the US as a whole but it is present at least in some pockets of the country. Here are two personal stories granted you cant verify them. 1 I went to Jr. High &amp HS in a town that borders Mexico. About half the population was is Hispanic mostly Mexican or MexianAmerican. At least half of my friends were Mexican or MexicanAmerican. Still a few bad apples made life hard for white kids just as its usually only a few bad apples responsible for the vast majority of overt racism against minorities. I remember brown kids that wore brown pride shirts to school none of the mostly white teachers dared to address it. But I know darn well that a white pride shirt would have been addressed for being inappropriate hateful and racist. I was routinely pushed in the hallways threatened that I would be beat up. They would bump into me make me drop my books etc. I was legitimately scared of several of the brown pride kids. On more than one occasion gum was spit into my hair and had to be cut out. I can honestly say I never did anything to deserve being treated like that. It wasnt retalliation it was straightup harassment and it seemed to be due to the color of my skin. Yes I was called derogatory names for white people. I wasnt that kid that everyone picked on. I was popular active in sports student council and other extracurricular activities. Maybe thats what made me stand out? But the popular brown kids were never targeted. 2 I was on vacation in Molokai Hawaii with my family. We were invited to a luau as were all the locals to celebrate a childs first birthday. My nephew who was 7 at the time had been playing with the local kids on the playground equipment. He ran up to our table crying. He had been pushed off the monkey bars and had sand thrown in his face by a group of kids who chanted Go home whitey! until my nephew ran to us for comfort and protection. Were locals who heard what happened mad? Of course! They apologized and said that some people dont like mainlanders on the island. Fair enough. Good to know they all didnt feel that way. It was still scary and intimidating for my nephew just like its scary and intimidating for minorities to be targeted for their race even if the majority of whites think that behavior is abhorrent. Is antiwhite racism the same as antiothercolor racism? No of course not. Pale skin comes with a whole lot of privilege. Still antiwhite racism exists and is a problem for those who experience it. Im.going to use the terminology that many social justice warriors use even though I am not one. Institutional racism against white people is not big you could argue dei was but even then not big enough to say serious also you could argue college professors are often in a position of power and want to use it to promote non white students happened to me in my college but lets be honest a lot of professors are just nutty so its not big enough to be serious Individual racism is immense against white people just like it is for everyone unfortunately. Not everyone all the time just like other races but it exists and is a problem. Why is it not serious? Any type of racism is serious. But let’s take you stance. Dei and affirmative action is anti white racism. It’s just a type of racism many people are ok with because the group it’s directed towards they feel deserves it. Take for example the college acceptance requirements. That some random white kid is essentially punished because he is white to make way for a black or Latino kid is anti white racism. Man time people will say oh these white kids are well off or have legacy parents etc etc. but the vast majority of people are not those kinda people who have those kinda privileges. Again many people just don’t see being racist towards white people as an issue because they are the perceived bad guy and just getting their karma. the thing is peoplea lot of people who claim to not be racist are racist af towards white people which is just hypocritcal af Any denial of anti white racism is either gaslighting or pure stupidity/ignorance. Everything is anti white. Movies tv shows academia school admissions affirmative action the covering up of anti white murders mostly black on white immigration policy etc. Whites are the only people who you’re allowed to discriminate against. Whites are also the only ones shamed if they have any pride for being white and are accused of being Nazi’s” if they don’t hate themselves. I can go on and on. Racism is racism and racism against white people is still wrong even if some white people are racist too Racism in any direction is wrong and there is very much racism towards white people out there in this country pretending like it doesnt exist is ridiculous even if you think white people deserve it or something The crux of this perspective is we’re now in the business of arguing whether or why one form of racism is better than another. That’s problematic for some obvious reasons. As one of the most diverse countries in the world the United States *could* be working toward solutions for racial equity in general instead we’re minimizing deflecting ordering and ultimately rationalizing a form of racial prejudice as not a big enough problem yet” worth the cost” or the particularly morally corrupt and alltocommon response well now they know how it feels”. The latter is the hallmark of social retribution policy vengeance seeking slave morality and guarantees the problem of racial prejudice will never be solved we’ll just cycle through the current and latest Enemy #1” in perpetuity teaching our children to justify the least worst” forms of racism for the right” reasons and the cycle continues. Harm is not from minority groups. Some are absolutely racist but Ive worked in all black institutions as one of few notblacks Italian and Jewish in staff of thousands prison inner city social services schools and really enjoyed it treated well. More division based on origin African or lightness of skin than animosity towards nonblacks. Its selfhatred of posturing whites that are the real issue. You can be racist towards your own race. And its these folks that cause harm. Simping and trying to please minorities to the point they are uncomfortable foisting resentment when promoting someone who is black over a qualified white. And having worked in those institutions the person promoted if decent feels terrible too. Who wants to be promoted over more competent coworkers when you are traumabonded at the prison feeling like you betrayed good friends? Causes harm all around. The actual mayor of Chicago was bragging about how many of his staff were black. I think we can all agree its bad to hire people because of race. Isnt DEI the definition of racism? Why not hire people on merit? Isnt that what MLK would have wanted? Id argue that racism against non black people is a massive issue. Look at the elderly Asian people who were attacked. Where was the outrage for those victims? Question1 Do you prefer Democrats or Republicans? Would you call yourself progressive? Question2 do you think that a large amount of people considered privileged white people heterosexual people men are shifting more towards the right? If so why? So hating white people is fine. Based on your point of view you need whites to die to see it as a problem? Every event such as a killing or murder has context and story. We live in a society where we can predict things now. Students of a university near me were suspended for posting Its OK to be white on social media. Let me preface this by saying that everything you said was true. You *are* right... ...Mostly. However the United States isnt anything like a homogenous society. Anything thats true *most* of the time has exceptions. As a child from the time I was very small my family lived in little native villages in rural Alaska. My dad was a teacher. Im pobably one of the only Americans youll ever hear honestly say theyve gone to school in a one room schoolhouse. My dad felt that we shouldnt stay in any one village long enough to wear out our welcome so we moved a few times. Most of the villages we lived in were very friendly and welcoming to all of us but there was one... I dont know how things were for mom and dad. Theyve never said. But I know that for me and my brothers it was hell. The other kids *hated* us for being white. Bullying doesnt even *begin* to cover it. The adults didnt do much out of concern it would look like favoritism. More often then not *I* was punished for not trying to get along with them. This is *not* an uncommon experience. White kids in schools that are predominantly POC often have it as bad or worse than POC children in white schools. After my dad retired well after I had moved out my immediate family moved to Washington state the bluest blue state in the history of blue. At that point I had two brothers and two sisters living at home big family. One of my brothers and one of my sisters had a very difficult time finding jobs to save up for college. No one would hire them for low end unskilled labor. My other brother and sister? They pretty much got hired on the spot wherever they applied. Heres the thing. The ones that couldnt find jobs are white. The other two are adopted and are Polynesian. At one point my brother was outright told by a white manager that they wouldnt hire him because quote Hispanics need the jobs more and at least I know theyll work. Nothing quite like condescending white guilt with a dash of boomerang bigotry thrown in for spice. Two racisms for the price of one! 😂 The problem you see is that like all other isms racism against whites has very little effect on the average or the powerful. It only really impacts the most vulnerable. I guess a. youre not white and b. dont believe in reverse discrimination. I am here to tell you it has very seriously affected the careers and lives of many and it is real. Discrimination against people of any race is wrong. When Celebrities are able to say horrible shit about certain races and nothing happens to them you know that brand of racism is prevalent. As an example look up what Nick Canon said about white people. It’s the exact same shit white supremacists say about blacks. The same shit. And what happened? Nothing. He had to apologize about a single comment made against another group but all the antiwhite stuff? Nothing. And guess what when that happened tens thousands of people defended or agreed with what he said. DEI is anti white racism because practically every other race is a minority in US and DEI encourages helping out those minorities to the point where being white comes with having a hard time finding a job. I doubt no one told you how this works. Its very prevelant too. You can easily see through DEI hires by their work in companies with transparent workforce. Gaming industry especially. People using hyperspecific examples kinda proves the point here. A guy on here complained about not being able to get certain scholarships for college which in a vacuum seems like antiwhite racism. But this glosses over how many other advantages being white presents in academia. Affirmative action was literally made because legacy admissions were almost exclusively white I agree it’s not a serious issue as of yet. But I do think it’s more prevalent then people admit. Maybe racism isn’t the right word. I’d say antiwhite sentiment is pretty common among a lot of academics and there’s a sizeable amount in the black community I’d guess. Not without some justification though if we’re being honest. Would you say any instance of antiwhite racism is a serious issue? You certainly dont deny it exists. How are we defining prevalent? My former company had a policy were out of every 3 hires for this lucrative job there had to be 1 women and 1 POC. They would routinely hire women POC every 3rd hire to get around this and then they could hire who ever for the other 2. But that being said a white man could at best be eligible for only 2/3 of the selection and sometimes 1/3. There is a semantic problem here. When the left speaks of white people it comes from a place that understands that whiteness is not real. It is a social construct that is flexible and does not strictly depend on the color of your skin. It is a dog whistle for being in the racist ingroup. For example Irish and Italians were not in that ingroup and now they are. Arabs sometimes are in and sometimes out depending on the topic. The left uses the word white because of historical justifications for bigotry around race. They are partially ok with keeping it because it mostly serves as a good proxy. The right speaks about white people in a way that assumes race is real and absolute. So when the left bashes white people its about the construct of whiteness whereas the right who is predominately light skinned think its about them. The right doesnt realize that they can easily step out of that construct because its not about skin color. Combine this with the fact that many white as a construct people are interested maintaining the systemic racism because it benefits them. So with that out of the way it is a deeper problem then we realize because we keep going in circles fighting the same battles and neither side is fighting about the same thing. Until the right understands what is actually being discussed or the left chooses to drop old fashioned words like white we will never get to the point of the problem. And that problem is elites fighting the regular people. And as long as the elites can hide their arguments by making it about skin color they will always have some regular people fight alongside them because they dont want to be attacked for their skin color obviously. Are you blind? Do you not get online? Have you never seen SM? There are tons of anti white videos and comments all over the internet. So much so they have blk ppl speaking up and saying this is bs. Im at a compete loss as to how you think that anti white racism isnt the biggest form of racism in this country. At least openly it is. Sorry the Im oppressed because Im white crowd have found your post and decided to downvote you. Im probably gonna get downvoted too but who cares. Its on par for these people not white people just the dudes who like to play oppression olympics. Im a civil rights attorney. The fact of the matter is that this is not a widespread or prevalent issue. Not in the way these people are making it out to be. Ive actually represented white people in discrimination cases before. Does it happen? Yeah. Does it happen on a systemic level that can be validated by facts? No. Anyone can experience prejudice racism or rude behavior from individuals that happens to all groups. Im not denying that some of these people experienced racism. But racism isn’t just about isolated incidents it’s about power and systems. White people still hold most of the power in America politically economically and socially. They’re overrepresented in leadership positions tend to have higher average incomes better access to quality education and healthcare and face lower rates of police violence and incarceration compared to many nonwhite groups. These advantages come from centuries of systemic policies and social structures that favor whiteness. They can deny it all they want but these are welldocumented facts. So when people talk about antiwhite racism” it usually means individual cases of bias or insults not an actual system that oppresses white people as a group. Without that systemic backing those incidents don’t cause the same kind of harm or widespread disadvantage that people of color have historically faced and continue to face. In short white people have advantages built into the system which makes antiwhite racism much less prevalent or impactful on a large scale. I spent the past three years living in the South for the first time and recently moved away. During that time I never personally witnessed overt acts of whiteonnonwhite racism. However I did encounter several situations that felt like racially motivated hostility directed at me as a white person—including some confrontations that were physical and genuinely put me at risk. These incidents happened during ordinary activities like grocery shopping taking a cab or visiting tourist attractions. My first presidential vote was for a liberal candidate. But this experience made me question the broader narrative we often see in the media. It showed me that the story is more complex than it’s usually portrayed and I’ve since become more cautious about supporting political platforms that seem disconnected from my lived experience. I won’t vote liberal again unless I truly believe it aligns with my wellbeing and values. That said I’m grateful for the experience. Being outside of my comfort zone gave me a clearer view of the realworld dynamics that I hadn’t fully grasped before. On a different note I also worked at a top tech company FANG level and what I saw there shocked me. I witnessed more race and originbased favoritism and exclusion than anywhere else I’ve been. As someone raised in the American public school system I was taught values like fairness meritocracy and inclusion—that racism and nepotism are wrong and that diverse teams build better solutions. I came to realize that not all countries or cultures emphasize those ideals and in some places the opposite may even be normalized. It’s made me question why we were taught these values so strongly when in practice they’re often ignored or overridden—both abroad and here at home I think you will have a lot of trouble here due to the overwhelming amount of personal experiences supporting the appearance of a degree of prevalence. I’m not white but I used to work with some white people a few years ago and they would regularly refer to white people as barbaric evil and generally terrible and these were not sarcastic jests. They were very serious. They were racist against their own people and it seemed to me to be an epidemic of selfhatred rooted in the raciallycharged atmosphere of the time. They would treat white customers observably worse and mutter things like I hate white people” constantly except with more expletives. At the same time my good friend who is white was confiding in me about having to speak with his son after school each day because his nonwhite classmates turned against him after the children learned about the history of American slavery in class. 🤷‍♂️ There’s a difference between institutionalized racism and systemic racism. There has and always will be systemic racism/sexism/xenophobia/etc everywhere in the world unfortunately. People that look/act/think one way will always have issues with others.” That level of racism is more prominent toward white people in the current time than ever before. However was it always there? Yes. People just feel more freely in the US to be stating and showing those opinions openly now. One could argue that the ability of minority groups to be as racist in public as the majority always has been is actually a sign of progress in terms of free speech Institutionalized racism is not as prevalent despite what people say. The biggest example that most people will point to is affirmative action and similar laws that had good intentions to help with equity but ended up pissing people off because it’s not equality. However throughout history institutionalized racism has vastly targeted minority groups. Slavery was a founding principle of the constitution after all. And even when that was removed governments came up with other institutionalized forms of racist discrimination like Jim Crow laws. So while the systemic racism is absolutely horrible it’s the institutional racism that needs to be watched out for. You can work to change people’s minds and attitudes. Changing the law is much more difficult. In terms of changing your view it probably doesn’t seem as bad to you because the government isn’t saying white people are slaves now” but there might be some people out there that are saying white people should be. It’s up to you to decide if that meets your criteria of being prevalent enough. If we’re going to steelman the argument that antiwhite racism is a real and serious issue in the U.S. here’s how it would go First a large portion of the country doesn’t even believe racism against white people is possible. That’s not a neutral position—it’s a belief system that redefines racism as something only white people can commit. So any bias hostility or discrimination against whites is dismissed by default no matter how overt. Second institutional and policylevel examples exist. DEI programs in cities like Seattle and Oakland have explicitly excluded white applicants from grants and training. In education admissions data from elite universities has shown white and Asian applicants face higher bars for entry under affirmative action frameworks. If the roles were reversed these policies would be considered discriminatory without hesitation. Third violent crime and hate crime data contradict the narrative. In 2018 alone there were over 547000 Blackonwhite violent incidents compared to around 60000 whiteonBlack. FBI data also consistently shows thousands of white victims of racially motivated hate crimes each year. Culturally expressions of white identity are treated as inherently suspect while all other racial identities are celebrated. Academia regularly publishes ideas like abolish whiteness” that would be labeled hateful if directed at any other group. So the steelman is this antiwhite racism may be underacknowledged precisely because it’s framed as impossible. That doesn’t mean it isn’t happening. It means it’s happening without scrutiny—and that makes it more dangerous not less. The place i disagree with you is not so much a matter of public policy or programs or anything. Generally Im in support of poconly scholarships or preferential hiring practices and stuff like that as long as its within the realm of reasonable. Where i see it taking affect in my life and around me is more in the subtleties of human relationships on the job off the job. I think that generally speaking the last 10 years of social justice politics has toxicified race relations in America. I grew up with oldschool antiracism people are people skin color is as arbitrary as hair color and I always felt i lived by that. Recently i notice myself just being more guarded and distant around pocs especially if they use social justice language. It just feels icky and id rather make friends or work with people who see me as their equal. I dont want to interact with someone where theres this assumed collosal privilege division between us because of what my ancestors may have done. Im not trying to excuse or justify that behavior logically. Im just admitting that it happens. You could call that emotionally immature if you want. It is what it is and i have other white friends with similar experiences. I just know that subtly it has a major affect and speaking broadly I just know the net result of all this antiracism will be the opposite of what it attempts to accomplish that people are further retreating to their tribal corners. It all just feels like the integrationmeltingpotexperiment of america has been a failure. I think here’s a test. Say something derisive or unkind about white straight people openly around others maybe toss in some stereotypes. Then do the same for any other race and tell me which gets a stronger reaction. I’m white. European both parents are immigrants from Balkan Europe so don’t have a colonial past my ancestors were actually enslaved by the Ottomans for a couple hundred years. I grew up in a pretty diverse neighbourhood where I would definitely say I was the minority racially both on my street at my school etc. I’ve dealt with a lot of both overt and subtle racism. I’ve had people make comments to me about how white people are dirty naïve have bad food trashy etc. I’ve also experienced microaggression as recently as yesterday where I often see certain minorities especially in retail situations treat a member of their own race nicely and then suddenly become short and abrasive with me. Forget job applications at university applications where I am completely discriminated against. Now regarding your question about seriousness. Am I radicalized by it? No. Do I have friends who are not white? Of course. I am mature enough to realize that words and actions from certain individuals are not representative of an entire population. Now that being said I will never vote for any politician or party who supports things like discriminatory education or hiring based on race DEI or has members of their political party making stupid comments in public about white people are bad blah blah blah. They lose my vote and will never regain it. So you can probably put two and two together to see where people like myself vote. There’s a subreddit called r/fragilewhiteredditor go try to make one that replaces white” with black Jewish Hispanic etc and let me know how that goes. Seems like youre just shifting the burden of proof here. The title should be There arent any good examples of racism against whites to prove its prevalence. Or something like that because thats what youre actually getting after. Moreover I see a few reasons why racism against whites wouldnt appear as prevalent as it would against other races. Currently were under a nationalistic xenophobic administration that discriminates against people of color and ostracizes them. This generates a tidal wave in media where stories and news about people of color being attacked detained or threatened by ICE or the administration itself gains a lot of traction while media containing similar events involving white people loses attention because were all focused on the former. This has happened historically too. Injustice against oppressed groups makes headlines a lot faster than nonopressed groups. Its estimated that white people make up about 59% of the US. That makes the US predominantly white. Due to this fact there are far more racist white people in the US than any other race despite there being a close to equal ratio. Therefore youre more likely to see racism from white people than you are from people of color making the latter less visible. I dont think racism against whites isnt prevalent its just overshadowed by white people being racist. Ive seen my share of racism. So has everybody Ive known in my life. Black white Asian theyve all had their experiences. The solution is us against racism because racism affects us all. Downplaying each others experiences only leads to more division hatred and violence. A white persons experiences with racism is just as valid as any others because they too are a victim of it. Not always to the extent as people of color but still subjected to it nonetheless. A lot of people are giving thought out longer replies. Ill do a little short one Its OK to say Black Lives Matter but we arent allowed to say All Lives Matter or White Lives Matter. What is the difference between racism and antiwhite racism? For instance many will say DEI is anti white racism but wont actually tell us how. Lol what is there some sort of deep secret about preferential hiring you arent getting? There’s a difference between antiwhiteness as a structural critique of racialized power under white supremacy and shallow misdirected hatred toward individual white people. The latter is counterproductive. It obscures material class dynamics fractures workingclass solidarity and ultimately serves the interests of the capitalist class. Liberal identity politics unlike socialist intersectionality also reinforces these divisions by substituting symbolic representation e.g. DEI without power redistribution corporate #blacklivesmatter posts etc. for structural change allowing capital to coopt social justice rhetoric while continuing to exploit everyone. Liberal identity politics and the sort of divisive virtuesignaling performative allyship that erodes genuine solidarity are incredibly prevalent in American society and pose a serious threat to the lefts ability to effectively organize. I am a white person. A white man even. I live in a city that is now majority nonwhite. Like 40% Hispanic 30% white 22% black 8% people from literally every country on earth. I live in a neighborhood where I am maybe one of ten white people. My neighborhood is 99% Hispanic—specifically like 97% Mexican. I have never once experienced the kind of things that a Mexican person would experience in a mostly white area. I have never once experienced anything that could be considered anti white racism. People of color do not want to hold white people back. They don’t want revenge. They just want to be a part of the conversation. They want a chance at the same stuff we get. Good jobs education safe and stable homes to be treated like they are the same as anyone else. When a person of color does something that showcases or they bring up or reference their background—or the history of racism or current examples of racism—it is not to get” anyone. It is not to make people feel bad. It is not to play any card.” Their black or Hispanic or Asian background and heritage and culture is something they have every right to be proud of and celebrate. It is no different than Irish people or Italians or Germans celebrating theirs. It is something we should embrace and maybe even try to educate ourselves and learn about in a respectful way if they are willing to share it with us. This is different from cultural appropriation. I have been to black funerals and weddings and gatherings as a guest and i don’t try to emulate or copy anything I see. I observe and listen. I do the same when I have gone to Mexican events like Dia de Los muertos. I don’t paint my face or start acting like I know all the details. And i never assume I can just barge into these things. I only go when invited. So no. There is no anti white racism. There are white people who are so sensitive that they think everything has to be about them. People of color are allowed to love and celebrate their heritage and racial background. They are alllowed to call out prejudice and discrimination and injustices. That only becomes anti white racism if you feel attacked by someone noticing racism. Which says more about you than people of color. Just my viewpoint. DEIas currently implemented is antiwhite racism because when you prioritize hiring people based on their skin colour it takes opportunities away from poor whites. They cant get ahead with connections and historic wealth because they have none to speak of and they cant get ahead by merit as merit is no longer the first thing companies look forl for so they get left in the dust become bitter and vote MAGA. Its gotten so bad now that its no longer even an open secret that white applicants are automatically refused. There are antiwhite racists with significant influence that will straight up brag about it. What do you define as serious? I mean Im not white or from the United States but I think replacing white actors with black actors in movies/series especially when it goes against the logic of the time and place is quite racist. You’re right that outright hatred of white people isn’t mainstream or condoned by most Americans. But to say antiwhite racism isn’t prevalent misses what’s actually happening especially in universities media and parts of the corporate world. The issue isn’t that white people are being denied housing or legal rights. It’s that they are increasingly treated as the inherent problem in conversations about race culture and history. This trend is driven largely by the influence of Critical Race Theory CRT. CRT encourages people to view society primarily through the lens of race and power. According to this framework white people are positioned as oppressors simply because of their racial identity. While originally meant as a structural critique in practice it often leads to sweeping generalizations collective guilt and open hostility toward whiteness especially in academic and institutional settings. We now see Universitysanctioned BIPOConly” events that exclude white students. Professors making claims like white people are committed to being villains” and facing no consequences. Hiring and admissions decisions that deprioritize white and Asian applicants based on race which the Supreme Court has now ruled unconstitutional. Mandatory diversity trainings that instruct white participants to remain silent decenter whiteness” or acknowledge their inherent complicity. If this rhetoric or behavior targeted any other group it would be called out immediately and unequivocally. It isn’t. This isn’t classic reverse racism. It’s a cultural shift in which whiteness is constantly scrutinized diminished and sometimes openly condemned. CRT didn’t invent racism but it has helped normalize a new kind of racial essentialism with white people as the target. So yes antiwhite racism is real. It may not be widespread in the form of stateenforced discrimination but it is increasingly embedded in institutional language hiring practices and ideological training. Ignoring it doesn’t make it go away. It only pushes more people toward resentment and silence. I’d agree it’s not a huge issue overall but there’s plenty of anti white racists with large platforms on TV social media at universities etc… I went to an elementary school right outside Atlanta Georgia in the suburbs. The entire class was Mexican except a black pair of siblings a little white Pentecostal girl and me. The bullying was fucking RELENTLESS. This was third grade. I hung out with everyone i listed above simply because none of the Mexican children would play with us. One girl in particular made fun of my friends braids and said its sad that she only has a poor white girl as a friend who couldnt afford real jewelery she said this as she held up her golden necklace. The pentecostal girl got smacked around on the playground a few times they used language i couldnt remember because i didnt know the meaning of most of it. My mom said thats when I came home asking why a girl called our group the n word and a bunch of n word lovers. THIRD FUCKING GRADE. The girl that was the center of the name calling and talked about our races a lot she was the ring leader of all the other kids. As an adult the kid had to have a hard home life to know and spread hate like she did at such a young age its sad. anti white racism is prevalent in america. it usually instigated by whites themselves.its amazing how many whites hate themselves for being white you’re framing racism as only serious if it’s systemic organized and physically violent. but antiwhite bias doesn’t need to be hooded klansmen to be real ... it’s when entire institutions normalize open hostility toward one group while masking it as justice. imagine replacing white” with any other group in media HR seminars or late night monologues… and watch how fast careers end. you’re right that some examples are sloppy or exaggerated ......but that’s because people are stuck trying to prove water is wet when the faucet’s been dripping for years. when hiring systems list whiteness” as a problem to be unlearned when violent crimes against whites are underreported because they don’t match the narrative when entire DEI departments are structured to guilt not include ....it adds up. this isn’t about victim olympics. it’s about balance. and the fact that even pointing this out gets you labeled a bigot tells you everything. It is literally systemic racism against whites lmao what are you yapping about. Punishing young whites for the sins of old rich whites if humanity goes extinct it should end with a monster. a godzilla. a 200m tall huge giant reptilian mammalian insectoid whatever behemoth of a monster rising from the earth or from the sea or from outer space. you get my point. something impervious to all damage. shaking off nukes and ICBMs like gravel. if humanity were to be extinct i would much prefer a monster. maybe then we would all feel a little more contempt. a little less hate and a little more acceptance as we can do nothing but watch as the beast tears through cities and towns knowing your country will be soon next. at least maybe then the world would cooperate for once. or maybe not. countries being nuked. war crimes. chaos. cults worshipping the monster. militaries killing civilians on sight to deter from refugee zones. but the idea of a slow approaching unstoppable beast that will stop at nothing is a very very romantical idea. the idea that nothing will stop it so why not accept it? take pictures of the world. write. draw. film. maybe when we realize all this money saved all this time commiting to political sides all this nonsense of pondering about corruption and the problems of both capitalism communism socialism fascism when everything gets deduced down to it wont exist in a month nothing really matters anymore. no more suffering. no more new children to be harmed. and maybe i like this idea of tearing down the world apart. we can start a new one. I dont think a single 200m monster could wipe out every human. Oceans and distance not withstanding people can just hide underground or in small areas the monster cant access. If the monster chills in one spot just move. If the monster is constantly moving then just hide when its around and live your life when its not. at least maybe then the world would cooperate for once. We just had a monster tearing though the global population Covid. The world didnt cooperate *at all*. Lets ignore that giant monsters are not real for a moment and look at how the people of the world respond to global threats. They do not cooperate. Some try to fix it. Some ignore it. And some try to capitalize on it. It would be the same if there were a monster. It would be the same if it were zombies. It would be the same if it were aliens. Some humans are always going to take advantage of a situation to enrich themselves. This will remain true even if the situations is an existential crisis. Look at climate change. That is just a giant weather monster that is rampaging around causing death and destruction and that one day might just kill us all. Most people dont even give a shit and a lot of people actively deny that it is even a thing to be worried about. If there were a giant monster fucking up Nairobi a fair portion of the world would claim it was a fake attack and the monster wasnt real. And a fair portion would be actively cheering for the monster. and maybe i like this idea of tearing down the world apart. we can start a new one. If humanity destroys itself at least we learned to not do that in the future. If we get destroyed by a monster then we didnt learn anything. ...but arent the true monsters the people we became along the way? Great CMV. I’ve thought about this before about dinosaurs or something. Zombies etc. only thing is that we can’t understand fear surrounding those things. We can semi understand fear of man. So we know that certain environments or situations regarding humans are scary. For some people they have been in those situations so they truly understand but for most we just leave that to our imaginations. So it’s easy to say it would be better if there was a 200m beast crushing everyone now. But if you saw that beast rip your friend to pieces or burn them alive slowly or crush your family in a car then you may not think that. I would assume that civilization would continue for a while. Like if it was one day and the monster would take everyone out then that’s one thing but I imagine it would be more like walking dead. People would escape to the mountains and live in hiding. Then die slowly while developing cults. The longer is takes for the monster to take everyone out the more likely civilization with revert right back to crime. maybe then we would all feel a little more contempt. a little less hate and a little more acceptance as we can do nothing but watch as the beast tears through cities and towns knowing your country will be soon next. at least maybe then the world would cooperate for once. wed feel nothing because wed all be dead. We would not cooperate because wed all be dead. Except wed probably not go extinct from an event like this. I am to an ant as Godzilla is to me. And we have not driven ants extinct. Even if Godzilla got all his calories from eating people wed be fine. he would needs about 100 million daily. Assuming 600 calories per pound of human and an average weight of 100 pounds Godzilla needs to eat about 1600 people per day. there are 360000 babies born every day. we breed way faster then he can eat us. No way CMV is about such things. I have respect for this sub. CMV Such posts dont belong here Even if we couldnt hurt the kaiju that you want to end humanity there is no way for 1 monster to kill us all unless it destroyed the planet or eco system. There is just too much surface area on the planet. If it did survive nukes there is a good chance the planet would fall into a nuclear winter because I doubt we would only shoot 1 nuke. At very least the country that is getting attacked will become a nuclear wasteland. Id rather it be somethjng where we didnt know it was happening kinda like dying in your sleep of old age. Also 200 m monster sounds like it could wreck a coty or two but how tf could it kill everyone it would take countless number of years for something that small You must watch Curious Archive on youtube. He did one on this exact topic a year ago. **I Hope it Ends with a Monster** No an Independence Day or Signs type scenario is better only the aliens cant be undermined by a few clever selfsacrificing individuals in the case of ID or water in the case of Signs. We have a couple in office here in the US Israel is doing Greta Thunberg and her friends a favor by not letting them into Gaza Hello everyone and welcome to my first CMV! About me and my relation to the topic I was a fan of Greta Thunberg in 2017 during her FFF days in which I participated along with many other young people in my country. During COVID I lost track of her and only rediscovered her after COVID when she already focused on other issues. Nowadays I view her rhetorics including the rhetorics from back then as rather provocative and not as supportable for me personally compared to back then i.e. How dare you!. Regarding the conflict I am neither proIsrael nor proPalestine I like having civil discussions about it from time to time but regarding activism / protests I like to keep myself out of it due to the massively complicated nature of the conflict. I hold the suspicion though that most people who are discussing this conflict and going to protests have too little knowledge of what they are talking about are missinformed or poorly informed. Now the opinion of this post is Being intercepted by Israel on her way to Gaza prevented Greta Thunberg and her crew from a worse fate. From what I perceived the picture Greta is having / wants to paint of the situation in Gaza is that its an area inhabited only by civilians that are getting oppressed and starved by Israels military. That way sailing to Gaza in order to deliver aid by boat seems to be a reasonable way of activism but doesnt she ignore the fact that Hamas is still existing in Gaza? Did she have a plan on what would happen if Hamas takes her and her crew in captivity or worse? From what I have heard could be proIsrael sources though Hamas has been stealing food aid that was delivered to Gaza. It would therefore be reasonable to think that her aid would also be stolen by Hamas. Of course nobody can know what would have been if she actually made it to Gaza but I really feel like the risk of her and her crew being captured by Hamas and kept hostage or used for PR reasons is rather high. One doesnt even want to think about other outcomes given what Hamas did to women on Oct7. After her interception by Israel a lot of people on the internet state how outrageous this interception of the boat is and speculate on how long she will be kept as a hostage in Israel which is something I cannot deny ofc. Only time will tell but in my opinion Israel wouldnt profit from keeping her imprisoned which would only spark more public outrage. And regarding Greta and her crew I feel like they saved them from a much grimmer fate. Thanks for reading &lt3 FYI there have been and there are still some humanitarian aid workers and activists just like Greta working there as nurses doctors cooks and shelters managers I dont see them getting captured by Hamas. but I really feel like the risk of her and her crew being captured by Hamas and kept hostage or used for PR reasons is rather high. a lot of people on the internet state how outrageous this interception of the boat is and speculate on how long she will be kept as a hostage in Israel which is something I cannot deny ofc. So your argument is that they did her a favour by taking her hostage to prevent her from *probably* being taken hostage? I think you should probably have an opinion on Israel/Palestine before trying to argue this point. The replies Ive seen you make so far have highlighted your heavily propagandized view on the entire topic. For example youre worried about Hamas kidnapping Greta Thunberg. While Hamas has for sure done horrific acts and taken hostages before they are not some barbaric group full of idiots. They are a political organization that wants to succeed and please dont call me a terrorist sympathizer for that statement. Terrorist groups can still be political organizations. They are also not idiots. From a moral standpoint I imagine theyd let the aid be distributed because they genuinely do want whats best for the Palestinian people even if their actions havent led to whats best for them. They likely wouldnt abduct someone that is providing so much help. From a political perspective it would make no sense to abduct her. Shes from a country that generally support Palestine and recognizes Palestine as an independent nation. Letting her help and making themselves look good would also be optically good for them. They arent cavemen that wave guns around do violence for the sake of violence. Greta Thunberg et al. have not been taken as hostage by Israel. They were arrested later to be detained and deported. According to MiriamWebster dictionary the definition of hostage is hostage noun hos·​tage ˈhästij * 1a a person held by one party in a conflict as a pledge pending the fulfillment of an agreement b a person taken by force to secure the takers demands. * 2 one that is involuntarily controlled by an outside influence. The flotilla members aren’t being held as a pledge pending the fulfillment of an agreement there is no ransom and they’re not controlled by an outside influence — they made the voyage voluntarily knowing that a likely outcome would be their arrest by Israel. I think the leadership of Hamas would be smart enough not to take Greta Thunberg +crew hostage as it would simply be bad publicity. She would definitely see things she hates there both in shape of suffering and hate. And it wouldnt be safe for her but it wont be an organised action by Hamas she has to fear. So no I think it wouldve been good/fine for Greta to go there although it would be bad publicity for Israel so they obviously dont want it Did she have a plan on what would happen if Hamas takes her and her crew in captivity or worse? Assuming a level of professionalism to a highprofile expedition like this I would assume that the answer is yes. Ive worked in the charity sector for highprofile organisations and any operation like this would normally be preceded by extensive riskassessments and likely even abduction training for those involved in person. Abduction training equips people to recognise and reduce the risks of abduction in highrisk locations and trains them in how to behave if abducted in order to maximise their chance of survival. OP you are correct that it’s better to be picked up by the Israeli Navy and flown home than to be in an active war zone. But there are many more potential outcomes than you’re mentioning. There are MANY factions running around Gaza right now. If Hamas found them they likely would use them for propaganda and make a bunch of social media videos with them while probably stealing their aid. Killing them would backfire and they know it. A few of Greta’s crew have also openly praised Hamas and the Oct 7th massacre so it’s unlikely Hamas would see them as an enemy. If Palestinian Islamic Jihad found them they might execute them they tend to be even more extreme than Hamas. They might also hold them for ransom. They could also be found by some of the criminal gangs in Gaza. This is likely the worst fate. These organizations have no political goals no reason to treat Greta’s crew well and would likely take them hostage to extort a release fee or worse. Lastly if they did venture in Gaza from the boat they could hit a Hamas booby trap get blown up by an IDF airstrike or get hurt from the daily risks of wandering through a city full of collapsing buildings. Thunberg had no intention of reaching Gaza I assure you. The plan here was to get some PR attention from the journey get predictably intercepted by the Israeli navy and get flown home on a commercial airliner. Its highly speculative isnt it ? That something worse could happen to her/them. The israeli clearly according to own statements is just stopping them to maintain the blockade and imo their arrogance not due to any concerns for their safety. I believe the people involved weighed the risks consciously and decided to do it despite them thats brave they dont need to be saved anymore than someone who volunteers to be in ukraine during the present war. Hamas has existed for a long time and yes theyre evil but people visited the strip before with relative normality meaning Hamas wasnt and isnt out to snatch any foreigner that comeas along I don’t think Hamas would take a public figure who is very loudly proPalestine hostage. If not for the simple fact that it would be bad publicity for them. As for your concern that Hamas is stealing aid the chief of the United Nation’s World Food Programme WFP said there was no evidence of this https//www.bbc.com/news/articles/c0qg5z4lkj0o.amp Greta and the others with her made it clear multiple times that they understood exactly what kind of danger they were entering into. They knew that death was a risk. So this was not a favor that was asked for and will likely be heavily resented by those who were on the Flotilla. Additionally Israel was not doing this as a favor” they were doing it to maintain the blockade which serve their own interests. For one what Hamas? Its like 10 people sharing a cold ham sandwich at this point. Also Hamas is going to peace talks. I dont think theyre so strategically illiterate to kidnap \*THE\* Greta Thunberg knowing that they have no resources to keep her alive and especially considering Sweden is one of the more active supporters of Palestine. Hamas is a religious terrorist group so it is a possibility but kidnapping Greta Thunberg is basically suicide for their highlevel people and Hamas is not going to risk that. Okay I will try to make it as civil as possible. You dont really understand what freedom flotilla is really about. Greta is not just trying to help some starving child in Gaza but trying to debunk the popular narrative against Palestinian people like calling them savages and terrorists. Even you seem to have fell for that narrative instead of digging just a little bit deeper and recognizing propaganda since you think they have more chance of getting kidnapped by some Palestinian terrorists than Israeli missiles that kills childrens daily. Hamas doesnt even have reason to attack freedom flotilla since such positive coverage will only work for them. And thats why Israel is trying so hard to not let any uncontrolled media coverage like flotilla to GAZA. If Israel cared about human life like youre saying they wouldnt have blocked the medical aid or even food. The last time the the humanitarian aid group tried to enter Gaza the Israeli government has arrested them for having a kitchen knife in their kitchen ffs. Israeli government is a circus of fking clowns bro. So if you dont care at least dont spew bs like this on internet I beg you. Well if Hamas is really taking all the aid to themselves and Greta is bringing in aid then why would they kidnap her when they can let her go and get her to send more aid? Now that is assuming they are really taking the aid to themselves I dont agree with the premise that the situation is complicated. I worry thats used as a reason to not do anything To quote the late and great Michael Brooks So it’s not a complex issue. That’s the big thing. It’s super simple. There’s one group that has enormous power. It’s the most powerful country in the Middle East. It’s backed by the United States. It acts on another population of people with total impunity and it’s never held accountable for anything. I dont see any realistic risk of them being targetted and held hostage by Hamas. There are Western doctors that work in Gaza to help theyve not been targetted by Hamas nor have aid workers. The Palestinians would welcome and encourage the World to break the illegal blockade they wouldnt jeopardise that. And if it was a likely scenario then it would have happened by now. The risk they would face is from the IDF. We saw this with the World Central Kitchen. It wasnt Hamas that killed them it was the IDF. If Israel really believed that it was a likely scenario that Hamas would kidnap them then they would have let them in. That would have been good PR for Israel. Israel simply wants to maintain its illegal blockade and not start a precedent of aid flooding in for the starving and injured. It also doesnt want the outside world to see what its doing in Gaza. Starvation isnt an allowable weapon of war. Israels logic is circular on this. They claim without evidence that there is plenty of aid but Hamas has taken it for itself. So if Hamas already has plenty of aid for the whole of Gaza how would they be harming Hamas by not allowing more aid? Theyre clearly not starving Hamas if they already have aid for 2 million people Israel is only making it impossible for civilians to get aid. She is hardly the only activist who has tried to force the blockade. She might be quite famous but I think people have already have their opinions set on her. Israelis especially the government arent going to be sway by public opinions. They have already committed to suppressing the region with force. Her little theatrics arent going to change anything. theres a good chance Israel wouldve shot at her and when she went to the hospital for her injuries... Israel wouldve blown up the hospital because ... does it matter? they saved her life but not putting her in a situation where they would have to kill her. Her goal all along was to be detained by Israel. That’s why she recorded that video before it even happened. It was a PR stunt to paint Israel as authoritarian. I’m no fan of Israel but things like that are just not helpful at all. If she wants to go and report on what’s really happening that would have been good but instead she chose to pull a cheap stunt. The things is the flotilla people knew EXACTLY what would happen. They were not going to get there this was to prove a point of how threatened israel feels about their captives being fed through the cage. You really think they should be more afraid of Hamas than Israel? The ones that stops them to deliver aid to Gaza is Israel not Hamas. Hamas attacking members of the crew would be politically disastrous and makes literally no sense. They are well aware of them and the consequences of attacking them just to get food completely overweight any possible benefit. Also there are lots of humanitarian workers in Gaza their threat is not Hamas. yall with go to extremes just to defend genocide woww What I will say is that despite Hamas presence and theyre stealing of aid Israel cant impose a complete blockade of essentials. Hamas stealing aid to my understanding is that they sell it to people in Gaza so they have money to use for weapons and such. Even though this problem exists imposing a complete blockade means that civilians start to starve and they lose access to essentials. Israel has tried to supply aid themselves but its been a shitshow. Centres have been overrun because people are desperate and dont know how when aid will stop being distributed theres nothing stopping Hamas from stealing aid once people leave the centre. Its unfortunate but theres nothing Israel can do about Hamas stealing aid that is acceptable. Theyve already completed the war goals Netanyahu just doesnt want to wrap up because Trump has given him so much freedom to do anything. From what I perceived the picture Greta is having / wants to paint of the situation in Gaza is that its an area inhabited only by civilians that are getting oppressed and starved by Israels military. That way sailing to Gaza in order to deliver aid by boat seems to be a reasonable way of activism but doesnt she ignore the fact that Hamas is still existing in Gaza? Did she have a plan on what would happen if Hamas takes her and her crew in captivity or worse? From what I have heard could be proIsrael sources though Hamas has been stealing food aid that was delivered to Gaza. It would therefore be reasonable to think that her aid would also be stolen by Hamas. Thats because you get your news from Fox News. Leave the altright mediasphere and suddenly you arent falling for misinformation anymore. It’s not that YOU lost track of Greta the moment she started to advocate for more pressing issues that she can have more impact on is when media outlets STOPPED covering her activism. She’s BEEN doing so much but even left leaning medias won’t cover her messages. If anyone dares to criticize extreme capitalism they will try to minimize your voice and make you look radical. That’s why she’s been so lowkey”. She knows that she can’t do much about climate change but she can have an impact in touching bases on imperialism and extreme capitalism. No comment on my end in regard to the issues of Palestine and Israel though. I’m just addressing why people haven’t heard much from Greta in the last few years. Edit even myself included I thought she went quiet the last few years. But I looked into it and saw that shes trying her best to bring awareness to issues she advocates for. But as I’ve said most outlets turn a blind eye to her. Hamas is only terrorist because the west deems them as such. In my eyes idf are bigger terrorists than hamas. Hamas had killed far fewer innocent people than idf. As the saying going one mans freedom fighter is another mans terrorist. I dont support hamas nor its actions. I do blame Israel for Oct 7th and consider what unfolded to be a worse massacre than Oct 7th. I have heard that Hamas actually planned to exexute Greta and her friends and livestream it! But then I have also heard that Israel is planning the same! I don’t know what to believe anymore! If you just consider them workers bringing humanitarian aid. It all seems much worse. Also of these poor workers working day and night to save lives just to be killed by Israel. One of the politicians just said they plan to force them to watch footage of October 7th which seems a perverse thing to do both the victims and the people watching it. On hamas evil people of course but like there arent so crazy there going to prioritize fucking with them over fighting most doctors journalist and other people trying to help the civilians whove made to it Gaza have mostly been killed by Israel forces over hamas forces. Dont take this as defense of hamas but anyone going in there who wasnt there on Oct 7th dying benefits the Israeli government more than hamas because anyone managing to get out is gonna be bad pr. Also maybe I misread but it was in international water they were apprehended so somewhat of a grey area in terms of they are allowed/it being a reasonable thing to do over something that poses no threat to the country. Greta would not be captured by Hamas. Hamas can recognize a PR coup when they see one. Greta would arrive she would be feted she would be guided to every photogenic PR occasion which Hamas could possibly arrange. Every sick grandmother every injured child Greta would come and hold and hug and kiss and Hamas would publish the images all over the world. No images of her would be published say with the remaining Israeli hostages or with Hamas fighters who steal international aid or with Gazan merchants who sell the stolen aid at exorbitant prices. Gretas main danger would be if Hamas decided to make her into another Rachel Corrie i.e. lead her into an active combat zone in the hopes of generating useful propaganda videos. For example theyd bring her to a location where Hamas fighters are gathering underground or theyd launch a few mortar rounds from a few dozen meters away. Either they get live video of Greta running away under fire or theyd get headlines all over the world Israel kills Swedish girl. Winwin. Why would Hamas capture them if they cooperated with Gaza law? Least racist Zionist I totally agree with you about Hamas being an awful cynical terrorist group. But like don’t you think Greta has massively more PR value to them letting her distribute her aid than as a hostage? If they take her hostage they confirm everything Israel says about them and undermine some of their international support. If they let her distribute her aid they get to point to it as an example of how desperate the Palestinians are and how Greta is doing what Israel won’t. They get to use the international spotlight she has on her as further propaganda. Under the current circumstances I think Greta had nothing to fear from Hamas. That doesn’t mean Hamas is a bunch of good guys just that she’s more useful to them distributing aid than as a hostage. It’s only if something changed and that calculus shifted like she started to criticize them that I think she might be in danger. Its not exactly a favor. Its the standard anticipated behavior. Israel is maintaining a blockade and by international law cannot be selective about enforcement. Thus they legally have to stop her. Maintaining standard procedures and following the law isnt a favor its just expected. I disagree she got a pastrami sandwich even though shes vegan 😡😡😡 /s The selfieyacht lmao How much Aid could They really have stored on that small boat? This was nothing but a white knight boat full of self righteous influencers. What is sad is that Hamas would love it if Greta went over there and Rachel Corried herself. [removed] Protests are pointless. More aggressive action will be the only thing that changes anything anymore. Edit This is for the USA . . . not other countries where politicians still listen to the people or where the govt isnt in a two party stranglehold. I would GENUINELY like my view on this to be changed. I have watched protests happen for the last 25 years of my life. I compare them to what protests used to look like and how they were received and I note a few differences. During the civil rights era we had worse far more rampant racism then we do today. At the very least it was more accepted and promoted. And we had political leaders who were racist. But they were this way because they were accurately representing their majority constituents. They were politicians and vile people but they at least were in line with their majority. Then Nixon was caught doing even slightly shady things and immediately resigned in disgrace . . . Protests mattered back then. Public approval mattered back then. Protests ended vietnam. Protests helped minorities gain rights. Pride month was basically started as a massive protest and now we collectively more or less accept LGBTQ+ people. But times have changed a lot in the last 40 years. . . . Today we have a convicted felon who was just ELECTED by a group of people who only around 5060% of his OWN GROUP support him. But they voted him in because its better then the other guy. This man in office answers to no one. He doesnt have to win the support of even his own party members. It is just given as a biproduct of our two party system. Even people who hated Trump still voted for him. Thus his approval rating means nothing to him. Likewise congress hasnt had a positive approval rating in my lifetime I am 41. But they are never removed because gerrymandering and the two party hold is so strong. The vast majority of elections are rigged in this country USA. The only thing that swings power back and forth between the two parties are less than 50 counties and about 5 states. I have watched the last 25 years and weve had a massive amount of protests. But it doesnt seem that anything much has changed. If anything things have gone backwards. Were not advancing anymore and yet there have been protests basically daily for 25 years. I believe the protests are no longer effective. Unless there is death and blood spilt I dont think any meaningful action would be taken to correct the abuses of those in power. And I think things are getting more divided then ever in our history approaching 1860 levels. Convince me that there is a peaceful path forward for this country given that about 30% of the population actively wants a civil war. Convince me that peaceful protests still retain their power and can effect change. I am listening. I will interact back about every 30 minutes for the next few hours as per the rules of the forum. The vast majority of elections are rigged in this country USA. The only thing that swings power back and forth between the two parties are less than 50 counties and about 5 states. No they aren’t. At least not yet. The fact that presidential elections hinge on swing states doesn’t make them rigged. That would require some outside influence predetermining or skewing the results. That’s not what’s happening. And your point only applies to presidential elections. There are hundreds of other vitally important elections that *don’t* hinge on the outcomes in specific counties or states. Protests mattered back then. Public approval mattered back then. Youre oversimplifying. It was incredibly difficult to effect change through protest during the civil rights movement. It required a brand of protest that the left is for whatever reason reluctant to employ today that focused heavily on PR on coming off spotlessly. Even so it required massive sacrifice on the part of protesters and it took decades to succeed. Consider **what kind of protests that effected change during the civil rights movement of the 1900s?** The most effective protests were highly coordinated and followed principles of nonviolent direct action. Heres a showing the sort of thing these protesters learned in training. It was critical that they always come off as beyond reproach. If they fought back theyd face serious consequences and theyd undermine the movement. These protesters were victorious not because they frightened their enemies with violence but because the nation saw how cruelly segregationists treated protesters. Photographs and videos of racist violence showcased the nobility of the protesters and the depravity of the segregationists. Compare to the protests of the last 25 years. Theyve certainly not been coordinated around a single objective and they havent been anywhere close to as disciplined as the protests of the civil rights movement. **How long did it take to effect change?** The civil rights movement fought for the rights of black people for *decades* throughout the early 1900s. Yet the movement only made major gains in the 1950s and 60s. If the leaders of the movement had given up hope and switched to more violently aggressive action see the Black Panthers I dont think the movement would have succeeded. **What were the consequences for those who protested?** Many of them were beaten threatened or arrested. Thats obviously tragic but in some ways the violence against protesters served the movement as I mentioned above the civil rights movement was effective in large part because it showed Americans just how evil segregation was through film and photos. There are countless examples of nonviolent resistance changing policy as well as social paradigms. Just recently 1. Reversed South Korea from going into Martial Law 2. In Bangladesh youth protests literally ousted the acting government Those are 2 major changes caused by nonviolent protests in just the last year. History has a much longer list such as black civil rights in America. The problem isnt that protests dont work. The problem is not enough people care. Whether you love Donald Trump or not **he won the election by a reasonable margin. This is what the American people asked for.** Protests work when a majority of people oppose tyranny. In this case at least a plurality of people support the tyranny. The whole point of Democracy is that you dont have to do aggressive acts to get things changed. Conservatives while they can get violent dont do that. They organize. Suddenly you start noticing the Daily wire show up to your feed. Suddenly peoples minds are getting changed just by getting ears on them their arguments and reporting is fucking garbage but guess what? They got in front of them. What did those people do? Show up to the polls. They did all of this this non violently. Just by having a better messaging game. This nonviolence would be more convincing then any violence you try to enact. Lets say you did become violent what would you achieve? Would you get popularity? What separates you from a terrorist at that point? Today we have a convicted felon who was just ELECTED by a group of people who only around 5060% of his OWN GROUP support him. But they voted him in because its better then the other guy. we only get to have 1 president so the odds of the president being personally your number 1 choice are quite low. I like Pete Buttigieg but an insufficient number of my countrymen agreed with me and we got Biden. Just mathematically it has to be this way. the only way for the majority of Americans to get their number 1 pick is if the majority of Americans share that number 1 pick. He doesnt have to win the support of even his own party members. He won the republican primary 3 times. as the incumbent in 2020 it was mostly a formality but the other 2 were real primaries. Even people who hated Trump still voted for him. I gotta call BS on that one. what is your source for that? Maybe they disliked his attitude but they liked his policy and they chose to vote based on policy. Shapiro said that line so much. I heard the same thing from my dad. Likewise congress hasnt had a positive approval rating in my lifetime I am 41. Congresses doesnt have a postitive approval rating but your congressmen probably does. Your congressmen assuming you dont live by me spends zero energy trying to earn my approval. He only tries to earn your approval. Naturally he doesnt do a great job of earning my approval. The vast majority of elections are rigged in this country USA. The only thing that swings power back and forth between the two parties are less than 50 counties and about 5 states. they also have to hold the other 45 states. 90% of people are set on what they want they vote the same way every 2 years because nothing much changes. That doesnt mean the system is broken. I think the American people made a big mistake with Trump. The problem with democracy is that it doesnt always produce the result you want. Its not a failure of our implementation of democracy its a failure of us as a people. Win elections. Get likeminded voters to get off their couches That fixes everything. The civil rights protests took a decade from Rosa Parks until the civil rights act and protests changed public opinion. Likewise it took 9 years for the protests against the Vietnam war to work and only then when public opinion switched as well. If getting a couple thousand people to participate in a march were all it took we would no longer be a democracy. 150 million people voted in the last presidential election. Peaceful protest is already handled in a violent way. If it gets aggressive what do you think is going to happen? People becoming violent is what they want so that they can take them down more easily with force. Is this about any one specific country? Because the French demonstrate that protests are very effective The tea party movement was entirely peaceful and fundamentally changed American politics. Mlk was able to protest peacefully so why can’t everyone one? I think peaceful protesting is a bit of rose tinted glasses with a hint of propaganda. It never existed in a vacuum. Even during the Civil Rights era peaceful protesting was part of a larger protest which wasnt entirely nonviolent. Peaceful Protesting is a way for opponents to weaponize protesting and point to more peaceful protests to claim See why cant you just be like them and not inconvenience me!? Can you actually name one thing of major consequence that was gained *solely* by peaceful protesting in the last 250 years? The protests over Vietnam and civil rights went on for decades before any change happened. It wasnt like there were a few years of protest and all of the sudden politicians decided to change votes because of those protests. Also as far as Vietnam protests were just one of many factors that helped bring the war to an end. As to your other point how exactly would more aggressive action bring positive change about. All aggressive action does is turn people who are potential allies against the protesters and their ideas. Aggressive action by protesters does nothing but alienate people who could potentially be allies. Very very few people support violence I dont know exactly what you mean when calling for more aggressive action. Youre not going to persuade more people to your point of view with more aggressive action. Just look at LA yesterday. When the protests were peaceful Friday and Saturday a good portion of people in LA supported the protesters I live here. On Sunday when it started turning more violent people were turned off. No one or very few thought setting cars on fire and throwing rocks at the police was a good move. What do you think more aggressive action could possibly accomplish? If youre think actual revolution there are far too few people interested in that as it makes no sense whatsoever. I am from Serbia. A country already ruled by a dictator. We are currently in the midst of arguably the biggest protests the country has ever seen. Trumps second term started less than a year ago. Our president has been ruling for 13ish years. The protests have been entirely peaceful up to this point. The biggest win is that people are stopping to bow to him and his intimidation tactics are losing a lot of power. Now he definetly wont relinquish the elections when he loses them. And at that point we will definetly need force. But you nowhere near that point. As I said Trump has been in office less than a year. He hasnt managed to replace every single civil body in you country with his supporters and I do mean every single one. The protests of the last 30 years arent missing force. They are missing enough people wanting to get of their asses and clear goals. Civil rights protests had pretty damn clear goals. Equal rights under the law. You arent losing because protests dont work. You are losing because not enough people care about you cause. Protests and riots are not the same thing. When the protest includes arson and looting it has become a riot and IMO I dont care what you are protesting because youve just incited a riot. Your actions have cause harm to innocents and you dont care. You justify it as part of your message it needs to be violent to be heard. Blah Blah Blah. People who were alive in the 1950s protested and saw change. People today act like we havent changes since the 1950s and we have the same racism now that we had then. Those people are hard to take seriously especially when they believe violence is the answer. I can tell you that personally I will never be on the of the people rioting. When you are trying to highlight your cause while making new victims you lost the high road. You are just another oppressor with a different hat. The US does not have two parties it has two wings of the same party. The Dems are the apologetic wing and the Republicans are the fascist wing. Governments come and go but the interests and actions remain Of course protests are necessary but if there is no organization in the form of an organized party protests alone will only serve as justification for more violence. And no there is no way to have only peaceful protests while the Gestapo is out hunting Alright but be prepared for the aggressive counter protest. Violence is better accomplished by the establishment and violent rebellion is certainly allowed to be put down by law. You want a fight but youre bringing a gun to a tank fight. That doesnt look like a good path forward. We have voted every two years for different leadership. We change all the time without violence. Its not necessary. Deporting people who are in the U.S. illegally isn’t cruel it’s simply enforcing the law and people protesting it are ignoring that basic fact. Im watching all the drama unfold from Australia and I’ve never understood the outrage surrounding the deportation of illegal immigrants especially when it sparks protests riots or moral grandstanding. From my perspective the situation is simple 1. U.S. immigration law clearly outlines who can and cannot legally be in the country. 2. If someone enters or remains in the U.S. without proper documentation that’s a violation of the law. 3. Regardless of how kind hardworking or integrated into the community they are they’ve still broken the law just like a wellliked person who commits any other crime doesn’t get a free pass. 4. So when an administration actually enforces those laws such as Trump’s I don’t see why people are acting like it’s some kind of fascist or inhumane action. To me this is just a basic function of a nation with laws and borders. If the law says you can’t be here without a visa and you’re here anyway then yes you face consequences. That’s how every other law works. The enforcement may have been lax in the past but that doesn’t mean enforcement now is unjust — it’s just finally being taken seriously. Also enforcement of the law must be applied equally because if its not its opening up to potiential corruption of the justice system in which some people get penalised and others dont. I genuinely want to understand why so many people react with outrage violence or calls of injustice when deportation occurs under these circumstances. What am I missing here? Is there a legal ethical or practical justification for ignoring immigration law in these cases? **Change my view.** **EDIT For people saying they are deporting legal immigrants etc without due process. There is literally nothing stopping you from buying a plane ticket and flying right back into United States with your Valid Visa/Documentations. So lets not use this baseless defense.** **EDIT 2 Ok I did more research the suspects are placed into detention first but they are all allowed necessary hearings before an immigration judge to plead their case so im not sure why people are being disingenuous when they say no due process is being followed. That is literally due process and they are also allowed representation while they are in detention so you can employ an immigration lawyer to lodge a case. This is the system being followed here in Australia as well. You first get placed into a detention center and then you plead your case.** **For people saying they are deporting legal immigrants etc without due process. There is literally nothing stopping you from buying a plane ticket and flying right back into United States with your Valid Visa/Documentations. So lets not use this baseless defense.** I love how this is meant to be the grand defense of a federal agency openly and flagrantly violating peoples rights. Just buy a ticket with the money you probably dont have on you and fly back! Theres also your ingrained misunderstanding of what visas and documents actually are since you apparently think you can just print one out over the internet from any random printer. **Ok I did more research the suspects are placed into detention first but they are all allowed necessary hearings before an immigration judge to plead their case so im not sure why people are being disingenuous when they say no due process is being followed. That is literally due process and they are also allowed representation while they are in detention so you can employ an immigration lawyer to loedge a case. This is the system being followed here in Australia as well. You first get placed into a detention center and then you plead your case.** You have done no research. You dont even know what a visa is nor how one is acquired. In all your supposed research youve managed to miss how often deportations have been grounded and successfully challenged as illegitimate by judges only for Trump and ICE to ignore it and illegally deport people. And yet you want to lecture people in another country who know better than you about how its totally legitimate that the government can kidnap people and send them off to a gulag with zero day in court and zero recourse for their frequent fuck ups. [removed] The law also says that you need due process to punish them under the law. If people are just going to be thrown out without due process a that is breaking the law and b how are we even sure whether the right people are being thrown out? Sounds like something to protest about right? I don’t think anyone is disputing there is a legal basis for deportations at least in many cases. The dispute is mostly 1 The places deportees are sent e.g. that El Salvador prison are not consistent with US law and/or are of questionable legality 2 People are or at least were attempted to be deported without the government giving the deportee their day in court which our legal system does require. Even if they came in illegally. Everyone gets their day in court it’s part of a fair and just legal system. It also seems in some cases the government did not act in good faith with the legal system in order to make certain things happen such as not grounding a plane a judge ordered grounded because the judge only told it verbally to the government and did not write it in paper as well. This raises additional questions about the legitimacy of the acts. If the deportations are really all above board legal and broadly supported publicly then why so much underhanded behavior? 3 There is contention on whether the immigration laws themselves are what people actually want. Some persons want to extremely limited immigration entirely some from certain areas only some want more lax immigration requirements some such as myself believe immigration should have essentially no requirements. I don’t think anyone including yourself believe people should support a law they view as unjust or is being used in an unjust way/for unjust purposes. It’s also not surprising that when deportation operations are carried out by masked officers who refuse to identify themselves or show a legal basis for their operation in some cases and the AG has come out saying they will prosecute people who interfere with that it’s difficult to not say that is a breakdown of the legal order. Normally the government when enforcing laws will clearly identify themselves and what they are arresting someone for. It seems counter to our sense of justice that that isn’t being done in many cases. Additionally the legal maneuvering of the administration which however it may go in court is largely seen as an abuse of the system and not the intended way of things does raise legitimate issues even for supporters of the deportations about how it is being done. Even people who support the deportations have to be questioning how legitimate well the judge said we had to ground the plane but they didn’t put it explicitly in writing so we ignored that” really is as a justification. Lastly lax enforcement of the law does seem to provide some defense. Maybe not legally but in a question of what is just or not. For example if a law exists but is only enforced selectively. Say by targeting enforcement of the law against specific kinds of offenders and not all offenders equally then it doesn’t seem just that people should be held guilty and punished under that law. A great example of this is drug use in America. For some kinds of people being caught with illegal drugs in years in prison. For others it is met with no legal repercussion at all. It’s questionable that a law that is selectively enforced like that is really a just law at all. Immigration laws may be one such case. For example there is a good amount of evidence that Elon Musk violated the terms of his original Visa before becoming a citizen. Strictly speaking under the law this should result if true in him losing citizenship. That is the law on the books” and actually enforcing the law”. Yet we see people in similar circumstances who don’t have the benefit of wealth and political connections being punished for the same alleged behavior. It’s very questionable to say the law is the law” if enforcement is selective and there is some maybe even good reason to believe this enforcement is selective. they’re revoking temporary legal statuses &amp even picking people up at their immigration appointments &amp trials You’re right that would technically be fine if that’s what was happening. But that is not an accurate characterization of the situation and it’s not why people are protesting. Part of the disagreement is with the overtly strict immigration policies but the bigger issue is the unethical and in some cases illegal methods for enforcing the law. There is an ethical way to do it an evil way to do it and I would argue that Trump consistently chooses the most cruel and unethical enforcement methods. Regarding your edit this was only the case after the Trump administration was sued and the Supreme Court ordered them to hold hearings. Prior to this quite a few immigrants including the 200 or so Venezuelan immigrants sent to El Salvador prison were not given any hearings. The practice of imprisoning these people in foreign jails is itself especially cruel and probably illegal. These are concentration camps. Trump is abusing emergency wartime powers to do so…and even then this law doesn’t authorize the president to detain them outside of US control. These people are not proven guilty of violent crimes or terrorism yet are being held in a concentration camp indefinitely. Many in fact who are probably valid refugees. Yes it’s true that if someone breaks the immigration law they can be sentenced to jail or deported to their home country. But that’s not what Trump is doing. He is sending them to dangerous detention centers in various foreign countries. It’s cruel and illegal to just toss them in a foreign prison no matter the process or legality. Even now the administration is doing everything to skirt the law. For example if they detain migrants in one state they will immediately fly them to another state making it nearly impossible for their lawyers to find or represent them. They have also been accused of not giving the detainees proper notice of court dates or having expedited hearings in conservative districts where the conservative judges will approve every deportation. The other shitty thing of course is the fact that the administration is also targeting immigrants who are following the law. People with student visas and other types of visas are having their statuses revoked and being deported. People showing up to their final citizenship exam are being arrested and deported. Tourists are being arrested. Etc. Then there is the policy considerations too which I’m happy to discuss but running out of space here. Do you think that just because a cop is enforcing the law it cant be considered cruel? i think you just don’t understand what is happening. it’s being done in a way that is causing terror in the community through very public and aggressive methods people who are in the US legally are being detained as well. this is why people are protesting Regardless of how kind hardworking or integrated into the community they are they’ve still broken the law just like a wellliked person who commits any other crime doesn’t get a free pass. Other posters focused on how we sometimes do give people free passes in hypocritical ways but lets just point out that even other than that yeah **leniency IS a big part of the legal process**. First time offenders for nonviolent crimes do sometimes get a slap on the wrist or less and the discretion of the police or the judiciary. Even for serious crimes there is a reason why we have character witenesses in a courtroom the judge literally has the discretion to give a lesser sentencing to a sympathetic murderer than to an unsympathetic one its not like the law just says it had to be 20 years no exceptions. How much remorse they are showing how much chance they have to become a productive member of society how specific and sympathetic their motives were is always a consideration. There is a reason why enfocing the law at its stricter extent is known as throwing the book at someone it is a uniquely heavy handed measure that is done sometimes done with infamously biased reasons e.g. black people getting disproportionally worse sentences for drug possession white rapists getting away with being a promising young man but the basic principle is still worth having over just passing automated judgements over everyone because NOT throwing the book at literally every productive member of society who made a mistake is a nevecesary part of any humane judicial system. What a strawman. The problem here isn’t the deportations it’s deportations without any trial. How are we supposed to know if somebody is here illegally or committing any crimes when there is no trial at all? And we have already seen the administration blatantly lie about gang membership human trafficking and murder charges to justify a lot of these deportations. Think about it this way. If you were suddenly picked up by ICE to be deported what would you do? You wouldn’t have access to a lawyer you wouldn’t be asked to show papers you wouldn’t have a chance to argue in front of a judge you would simply be whisked off to wherever the state decided you would go. Does that sound like a country you want to live in? Why is being in the U.S. illegally worth the violence of deportations? As an immigrant outside the U.S. I just cannot imagine the level of aggression happening to me if my paperwork expired where I am now. Its easy to be on the wrong side of immigration law. Its not abnormal for countries to have processes for immigrants to regularize their stay. Its a civil matter thats treated like a violent crime in the U.S. ICE didnt even exist until after 9/11. Have you read about the ICE deportation flights? With the way people are shackled to the seats and attendants cannot treat them humanely? People break laws all the time. Not every law is a good law. I just dont see how the punishment fits. Its not just being deported. Its the violence of it. And the lack of nuance like going after people who grew up in the U.S. because their parents brought them as children. Or separating families and having them in camps. Breaking a law of that nature doesnt seem to warrant such dehumanizing treatment. Not to mention that the U.S. disrupts other countries in ways that lead to more migration into the U.S. as their homes become unsafe. a wellliked person who commits any other crime doesn’t get a free pass. This isnt true though is it? Trump got many free passes and is now you have a literal criminal leading the country. Elon gets a free pass because hes got money. Hes an illegal immigrant. The issue here is ICE and Trumps administration arent just deporting illegal immigrants anymore. Theyre deporting legal citizens without due process. Should illegal immigrants be deported? Yes. But thats not whats solely happening in the US right now. I would implore you to read some books about/from World War II. So theres the narrower issue first of all that the current wave of immigration detentions are too broad. Tourists with perfectly legitimate visas and passports have been detained as have people with foreign ancestry who the police simply dont like. The broader issues are the difficulties of legal immigration and the fact that in most cases illegal immigrants are otherwise widely law abiding citizens who contribute to the country as a whole. The defence of this is the law ignores the fact that a law is perfectly capable of being unjust. See Dread Scott or the Holocaust. Consider this. By most estimates the US has had approximately 1012 million undocumented immigrants living within its borders for the past 20 years. Yet society functioned fine and many of these people paid taxes and contributed to their communities. Do you honestly think it would be utopic if those people left? The issue as I understand it is that people are being rounded up locked up on suspicion and sometimes deported without trial. Now I couldnt tell you whether thats actually happening because Im not following it that closely but I can tell you a lot of people THINK its happening. Could just be because were living in a posttruth society though. Theres also the issue of methods. It seems to be a fact that ICE is running around in force and just grabbing whoevers brown on no additional basis. Maybe theres more to it Id certainly hope and think so but this is the claim and this is what people are upset about. Im with you in principle though. The government has no obligation to not enforce the law. They actually have very much the opposite obligation. If you give them the right of selective enforcement thats no good for anybody. On top of the responses youve gotten about how its being done without a proper trial so there isnt actually proof people are here without proper documentation. They detained a U.S. Marshall because he fit a general description. Its happening to others but he was newsworthy and he was only released because of his badge. There are a lot of layers. One being Ice is coming out full force into peaceful areas with no identification no warrants in plain clothes and wearing masks. Theyre a public service that has the allowance to physically harm people if they see fit. There are a few problems. 1 We dont have proof that theyre Ice other than we said so. 2 theres no way for us the general public to hold any individual accountable like any other public service position. 3 theyre creating a situation that allows people to pretend to be Ice and kidnap people. If you look outside of the question of whether or not the ice raids are cruel or whether or not the law is being enforced the way theyre doing it is creating an unsafe environment. Its a large factor for why they need to be protested. Those here illegally were always deported under any administration. Thats not the current question. Should being accused of being here illegally without any evidence required or court procedures result in being sentenced to a torture camp in El Salvador for life ? Should applying for asylum in the method proscribed by US law which requires an undocumented border crossing be treated as being here illegally? Should people brought here as children be treated as being here illegally? Or maybe is anyone defending the things which are actually happening and are not in any way shape or form upholding our laws a fascist? Its simple they arent enforcing the laws. They are doing illegal shit. Deportation is returning the person to their country of origin not sending them to a prison in some other country. Deportation requires a trial to prove that the person being deported should actually be deported. What the usa is doing now is disappearing people. Having masked agents pick people off the street and sent to a prison without a trial is NOT deportation. You don’t actually address cruelty in your post unless you want to claim the law can’t be cruel. Let’s say it was written into law that the punishment for littering was some form of mutilation. Even if you consistently applied this to everybody and everybody could easily avoid littering and had no excuse it would still be cruel every time someone was mutilated. Refugees are not illegal immigrants despite the desire of conservative governments to make them so. Illegal immigrants people who overstay their visas or work on visas youre not allowed to work on etc. are not the ones being targeted in this most recent push. Its the refugees and very specifically people who have fled the cartelbased violence in Central and Southern America that the United States has both tacitly and overtly encouraged throughout history. Also people are angry about the betrayal of some of the fundamental principles of the United States *Give me your tired your poor Your huddled masses yearning to breathe free The wretched refuse of your teeming shore. Send these the homeless tempesttost to me I lift my lamp beside the golden door!* But hey we Australians illegally hold refugees in offshore concentration camps run by a security company and dont bat an eyelid so its understandable that youre having difficulty imagining people getting upset about it. Is it legal? Yes. Is it moral? No. The majority of illegal immigrants contribute to the economy and are taxed the same as people legally residing in the United States without benefiting from any of the programs to which they contribute. And its always the same thing if tomorrow your state told you that it was legal to deport imprison and exterminate Jews would you find that normal? I dont even get why they need hearings and due process because last I checked due process only really applies to American citizens. Which newsflash doesnt mean illegals should be able to benefit from it Are you this lawful neutral about everything a government does that it can do? You say its not cruel its enforcing the law like those are mutually exclusive categories and an action cant be both. Is that an argument youre willing to logically commit to regardless of what the law is? While yes you’re correct there are issues. We need serious in regard to immigration. It’s kind of a political tool as evinced in Trump preTrump 2 having the GOP kill a bipartisan bill that aimed to correct some issues and this is potentially one of the reasons he allegedly was elected. I say allegedly because he Trump Elon Musk and Elon Musk’s kid along with others in the administration have claimed the election was rigged. So going back to your points about law and upholding the law there are some significant questions. Back to immigration the processes here are sometimes lethally slow. It can take years and years for citizenship to be granted. Some people such as Kilmar Abrego Garcia a man who was wrongfully detained and trafficked from our country was married to a US citizen. The charges they are levying against him are ironic in that it is a mirror of what the country did to him. There are multiple metrics that show that immigrant work is a tremendous boon to our entire nation and fulfill jobs otherwise vacant due to various factors. Immigrants pay into the economy twice with taxes and do not receive benefits. It’s odd that they obtain government issued licenses and work for US contractors and companies yet none of these entities are punished only the individual. TLDR law for me not for thee. Processes are slow on purpose and the issue is manufactured as a smokescreen for a scapegoat to distract from billionaire/systemic exploitation. OP has your view changed? It seems a lot of people had very good explanations that provide context and a clearer understanding of the situation happening in the states. Is there anything else that needs clearing up? Your second edit is not factually correct due process is not being followed which is the cause for the outrage Y’all literally let emotions run your liked 24/7 huh. We are the most considerate country when it comes to deportation. No other country would give you half of comfort we do. This guy has valid point and yall just want to hoot and holler like an instagram influencer. Crazy Simply because something is legal doesnt mean it cant also be cruel. The law is not the same as morality or ethics. At various times in history there have been immoral or unethical laws in place including in the USA. There still are e.g. abortion laws in certain states. It is perfectly possible to create a legal structure around immigration status and deportation that is absolutely cruel if for example it ignores the welfare of children people with medical needs the risk to people returned etc. You believe that they do apply the law evenly? Why is Elon Musk than not deported? Would be easy as he is in government buildings all the time. Its THE WAY they are doing it my dude. Taking advantage of their power and tackling pushing and throwing people who arent even violent when detaining them. Well for starters it isnt illegal aliens they are deporting. Thats what they tell the world. For us they said it would only be criminal illegal migrants. But reality has proven otherwise. What you are actually witnessing is a passed blame by the elites that control America. People who wish to make what they feel they are worth or have government function how it should are told their woes are the result of too many people here straining the system. They tell them people come in and get free everything and there is nothing left for the average citizen. When in fact migrant workers pay taxes too like anyone else. So justification for ignoring immigration law is they lied about who they would deport firsthand. They are revoking Visas from people just to keep the quota up on Deportations. Particularly Chinese students. Theres a lot more and at least in California we have the balls to take a stand. Its happening to people who are in the country legally too. They did everything the right way and are still being picked up by people who refuse to show them any ID. Kids are being left in the street while the parents are sent off to ice detention centers. The way this is happening the lack of due process the detention centers the ice agents not IDing themselves is wrong this is not how a democratic country operates. Point 1 is actually arguable. The role that asylum plays in our system is actually not clear. The commitments we have made internationally in writing in binding terms isnt what is being enforced. So sending mixed signals about what is and isnt legal isnt a great start. Also on this point arresting people at courthouses also muddles this point. If someone as part of the process is supposed to have a hearing in a courtroom it doesnt make sense to penalize them for doing that by deporting them. If the process is supposed to be check in every three months its not coherent policy to arrest them for failing to do the check ins and then also arresting them for coming to the checkins. All youve done is make immigration impossible. It deteriorates the just so it legally argument by making that impossible. Finally refusing due process also confuses things. When people who are ordered by SCOTUS us highest court to not be deported are deported what message does that send? Even if they are bad dude if the court says they stay they should stay. Its the role of the executive to convince the court that they are correct not to over their heads. Its hard for the first line to be there are rules here when the executive isnt following those rules. Why do you take it for granted that deportation is the appropriate remedy rather than say a fine? Perhaps a fine with a temporary visa attached. Even a permanent visa. After all many of these people here illegally have been here for years and years have integrated into their communities have worked hard have paid taxes. Why is it the case that they MUST be deported? Why are the particulars of their cases not at all relevant? Can we ban Karma farming/ bait posts like this? Dude is being disingenuous look at his history They’re just grabbing people and deporting them to South Sudan They’re not being treated like humans for a minuscule crime. It isn’t a big crime morally nor lawfully. It’s not even a felony and people are being grabbed by unidentified people and then shipped somewhere in deplorable conditions where they have no resources at all. Wanting everyone living in the US to be here legally isn’t an evil vision but treating it like some purist goal and then treating people like they’re worse than scum just for existing and doing it without good vetting is horrible. The force behind this is not good intentioned it’s blood lust If a shop owner thought you grabbed a book without paying then police grab you and sent you to Libya without any ability to coordinate legal assistance in the US that wouldn’t be so nice right? Maybe they should have confirmed you actually took the book first. Or maybe they should just send you somewhere that you don’t know the language don’t know anyone and have no way of leaving. For people saying they are deporting legal immigrants etc without due process. There is literally nothing stopping you from buying a plane ticket and flying right back into United States with your Valid Visa/Documentations. So lets not use this baseless defense. That might be true but lets face it the inconvenience and expense of doing this are really not reasonable whatsoever [removed] You seem to believe that enforcing laws is automatically not cruel. Laws can be cruel and although you may not personally believe these laws to be so you dont speak for everyone. Its not what they are doing it is how they are doing it that is so offensive immoral and cruel and people are ignoring those basic facts. How dare you have policies that they have in every country and enforce way harder than the United States Everyone is right [removed] Morality would still be subjective even if God is real The argument morality is subjective without God bugs me a lot for one it is assuming that would be a problem. Morality being subjective is not an issue. Also it seems to be a semantic argument about what good / bad and subjective / objective mean. If anything God says is good is objectively good it just shifts goodness away from the way we commonly understand it and towards whether an authority agrees with it or not. Atheists can reason whether something is good or bad and generally agree with most religious people on most issues. On a few religious issues there is not much reasoning beyond god said so. If a religious person will argue murder is bad they generally dont fall back on the argument god said so because there is a common understanding there. That line of reasoning is more for issues like homosexuality. Sometimes the things that god did or permitted are just straight up evil and they have to defend that as well. This makes the whole thing seem very subjective anyways being subject to whatever the authority figure says is okay or not. I am not sure why Gods opinion on a matter would be objective anyways. I can create a scenario where I dictate that torturing people is the right thing to do in the scenario. We can agree then that you should torture people in the scenario but obviously there is a higher layer there where we can debate whether or not that is a good thing despite it being the correct thing to do in the scenario I created acting as a god of that scenario The reason morality is subjective is because everyone has different views and there is no true authority to give a final determination. If God were real then he would be the final authority and morality would no longer be subjective. What would remain subjective is whether or not you agree with God but he is still the final arbiter. Essentially your view on morality would be subjective but the truth of morality would be objective. You seem to be taking the image of God as a person a little too literally. When the religious person says without God morality is subjective they mean that without an ultimate absolute standard of goodness what passes for good is just an opinion. Understood that way it has the appearance of a necessary truth. But God isnt a subject per se but the source of all reality. So God being the source of morals doesnt make them subjective any more than physics is subjective of which God is also the source. Objective is things that are independent of other. For example even if all people belived that fire doesnt burn Objectively it will burn. Thus when God exists he makes what is Objectively right and wrong. Imagine like its a video game were you have a morality system. You as a creator is the one who decides what action are good or evil to get your good or bad ending that are Objective whether you think other wise does not matter. I think your example actually disproves your view Without an ultimate arbiter everyone has subjective morality and is equally right. The a sense of god and the existence of a government makes the defacto arbiter of objective morality the laws of said government the existence of multiple governments even brings into question the legitimacy of this in this arena North Korea has the right idea never though I’d get to that point in my life. With a God being the ultimate arbiter there is an objective morality standard set forward and then interpretation is up for debate. I do think your premise that we would agree murder is wrong isn’t sound we are animals. Every other animal kills its own kind without fail. The fact that humans don’t is either because of the impact of religion/religious ideas on evolution OR proof of a creator. It’s a real chicken and egg situation. In this case disagreeing with God would be like saying Gravity doesnt exist. You would just be objectively wrong. Your title does not match the body. It is very obvious that if God did exist he would control what is moral and what is immoral. His scriptures or whatever would have the final say. So morality WOULD be objective at least from the perspective of humans. The way I see it objectivity is relative. If a higher body dictates something no matter if he is subjective or objective it becomes a rule for humans therefore a matter of objectivity. Intrinsic within most definitions of God certainly the Biblical one is a God that is by nature maximally good maximally just maximally intelligent maximally joyful and maximally true. If your premise were true we would have to think of a God who can be all of these things but still get morality wrong. Additionally there would have to be another moral authority over him such that he were able to even get it wrong. God is truth itself not only can we not have objective morality without God we cant even have objective truth. The issue here is that there is no standard for you to accept god. If god is an omnipotent being and if objectivty exists there is actually a good reason to believe that god knows what objectivity is. Morality is not subjective with or without god. It is an emergent social phenomenon based implicitly on and explainable by concepts from game theory which explains how people act when they need to cooperate or avoid conflict. Moral rules are just behaviors that help groups work together build trust and stay stable over time. These rules last because they work not because they are based on personal feelings or something supernatural. Moral systems do not have to be the best possible ones for everyone globally optimal game strategies. They also dont have to be perfect. They only need to work well enough for a specific group. If a set of rules helps a community avoid chaos share resources and solve problems then that system will likely survive even if its not perfect. It does not matter if another system would work better if the existing one is good enough. It doesnt matter if there is a better set of rules somewhere else. This is why some archaic bits of morality still exist unless those bits are super destructive they just hang around. Its work to change the rules and that work is only expended if it has to be. Different societies come up with different moral rules because they face different problems and have different histories. What works in one place might not work in another and that is fine. The important thing is that the rules help the group function and get along. So while morality may look different across cultures it is not random or just a matter of opinion. It is shaped by what helps people live together with less conflict. There are certainly commonalities between people so there are some bits of morality that increasingly look universal. Some parts of morality show up in almost every culture. Most people agree that killing within their own group stealing and lying are wrong. They also tend to value fairness reciprocity loyalty to family or group and taking care of children. The details may vary but these basic bits of universal morality help people live together and avoid conflict. That is why they keep showing up even in very different societies. If an all knowing and powerful being told you something it would be true. You can disagree but youd be wrong by the vary meaning of all knowing. If he didnt know the truth he wouldnt be god. People can disagree with objective facts like flat earth but that doesnt make flat earth or the knowledge around it subjective. Ask 10 very religious people about their understanding of morality and youll get at least 5 completely different answers. Thats because everyone makes their own based on personal preferences. We share some sure. The rest what ever suits you better. If god were real how could u disobey and disagree with your creator? Youd be programmed the way God wanted Remember youre asking this from a perspective of freewill or Theres no God. Like the machines we have created cant disobey us. Thatd be Terminator scenario Morality being subjective means people will do things that from your perspective are morally appaling as if they are the most righteous. Think nazis genital mutilation etc. It is absolutely an issue Are you familiar with natural law? What you describe is known in philosophy as Euthyphrons dilemma named after a dialogue by Plato discussing the question Is the pious τὸ ὅσιον loved by the gods because it is pious or is it pious because it is loved by the gods? Thus are morally good things objectively morally good? If so who or what decides that? Or does God simply declare something morally good by divine authority? If so would that mean even genocide would be good if God said so? I think this dilemma can be resolved not philosophically but scientifically by the theory of evolution. Probably societies that agree on some kind of morality survived easier than those who didnt and so humans evolved an innate sense of morality. What the individual person views as morally good or bad of course varies but there are some things that are universal. And thats probably the things that are essential for a human society to function so those parts are not subjective while those that are less essential are influenced by the individual persons character. Yeah this is the part people tend to paper over with theologyspeak saying morality is objective because God commands it” doesn’t actually solve the subjectivity problem it just relocates it to God’s personality. If goodness is whatever God says then it’s still contingent on a mind’s preferences it’s just His. That’s not objectivity that’s divine subjectivity enforced by power. And if you say but God is inherently good” now you’re just defining goodness as whatever God is” which is circular. Either God’s morals can be questioned and then they’re not the gold standard or they can’t and you’ve just stapled ethics to obedience. Morality still ends up resting on interpretation values context….all the stuff that makes it subjective to begin with. God being real doesn’t make morality maths. Alright Ill to to provide a the relatively indepth argument for this. Disclaimer 1 I am not religious myself. Disclaimer 2 Most religious peoples religiosity amounts to little more than superstition and vague tradition. Im not going to excuse their poor argumentation. If they cant argue this case properly they shouldnt argue it at all. Arguably they shouldnt even believe in it but at least they should have the humility to admit that basic literacy evidently does not make them capable of reading the Bible for themselves enough to know and refer you to an actual priest/theologian who spent five years at university studying questions like this. This would also be intellectually honest by sourcing the authority on which they base their claims their local pastor the magisterium of the universal church or something to that effect. Disclaimer 3 I am not a professional theologian nor is my major theology despite me knowing theologians and having some familiarity with theology. If you are one and my explanation should be inadequate please feel free to correct it or expand upon it. Perfect lets get into it! Firstly we must understand what we mean by God because people can mean many things by this. The popular image is often a bearded man in the sky and indeed if some bearded man in the sky tells us what is right or wrong well... thats just his opinion. Why should it have more weight than anyone elses? Moreover if such a God tells us to do something that is evil should we follow him? Should we revolt and refuse to obey? What does it mean for something to be evil in this case? Its best we take a step back and think about God in more philosophical terms not tied to stories or mythology. In this sense the kind of minimal God we make no special assumptions about is a distinct God. It exists it is the origin of the universe and is necessary to upholding it in some way but it doesnt interfere with the world perhaps it isnt even a person at all. What it is though is objective Truth. An axiom all else hinges upon. This is an important sort of essence of what God is. To get back to morality what would it take for morality to be objective? Well it would have to be an absolute universal truth that in some sense exists. Now we could think of it as something God dictates or creates but its not really a meaningful distinction to make after all God itself is Truth so it would merely be an expression of Truth. In any case if we consider any morality to be true we consider it somehow immaterially metaphysically/logically true not empirically true. And yet for it to be really true it cannot be invented but must always have been there independent of its discoverer. All this taken into consideration it contingently makes sense to say that God _is_ morality. Its not that God decides morality but that it is among other things morality because objective morality is a part of the objective Truth. There is the classic question to put it in plain and monotheistic terms Does God like good actions because they are good or are actions good because God likes them? The monotheistic answer here is more or less that they are in a fundamental metaphysical level the same thing. If we assumed that morality is independent of even God then there would be something above God which would imply that this God functionally isnt. That there is something higher greater more omnipotent. But then isnt _that_ God instead? From a functional perspective God is that which is unbounded and not dependent on anything it is existence itself. From a specifically Christian perspective it is pretty widely accepted that God cannot lie not because he is powerless but because he is Truth itself and it would be contradictory. Its not about punishment or reward or opinion. Its simply about whether moral standards are true or not. If they are if they even _can_ be true and objectively correct that means there is an objective standard an immaterial truth that cannot be discovered through observation. For comparison I would also dare ask you is logic true? Independent of everything is formal logic true in and of itself? Is it a truth that precedes all? If not what makes any of our arguments good or bad? What standard would we hold them to? How would we discover any truth? From a Christian perspective the answer to this is just as clear. A certain Calvinist theologian made a point by writing the following entirely accurate translation from the original Greek In the beginning was logic and logic was with God and logic was God Logic is based on axioms. Axioma that which is worthy of belief. Some would say thou shalt not kill is as much a selfevident and objective truth as assumed laws of thought What even makes either of these things more objectively true? More _worthy of belief?_ Id like to point out that this is indeed one solution to the Euthypron dilemma or one variant of it. In this case the morally good is morally good because God says so. The other solution is that the morality good is as god says because it is morally good. The justification is that as god is supposedly allknowing he would know the objective moral truths. Hed simply relay us to them share his knowledge. However those moral truths would also exist without him making god in some sense redundant to the system. The Euthypron dilemma has core dissatisfaction either path you go but as theyre not exactly the point here they dont quite matter here. It doesnt seem to be. I’m not a religious person but I suspect the idea isn’t *God says _____ is good so it is”* as much as *God himself is goodness and we act to align ourselves with him by doing ______”*. It seems a lot more metaphysical than just an appeal to authority. If God *is* good then it seems like it would be objective to say God would dictate” objective morality. Id say we invented gods exactly because of this reason. For most of humanitys existence morals didnt matter at all because our societies didnt reach a point yet where moral judgement is necessary. An objective moral arbiter only becomes necessary when I have to defend an injustice. I need a way to declare an injustice just so I can continue with my injustice. The real change comes with the concept of ownership and property. Before these concepts existed the only real amoral things we could do are connected to violence. Hurting someone badly or straight up murdering someone. But these things are already against our basic moral compass so are objectively morally wrong. We dont need god or law for that. And some may say now that the fact that violence exists proves me wrong here but no. Most evidence we have about hunther/gatherer societies suggest that they are very peaceful. Of course violence existed back then. If there isnt enough food humans will kill each other for it no matter what any morals tell us. This has mostly to do with biology and not really with philosophical questions of morals. As I said above once ownership and property enter the human mind as concepts then the mess really starts. If I have more than you then I need a justification why you cant just take stuff from me as your instincts would tell you. If it exists it is free for the taking thats how humans existed for a million years. If God is real and grounds things epistemically morally and ontologically for us then morality is not subjective. Since we communicate with language I’d assume God would decree what is true and good. But committing to truth and goodness don’t necessarily guarantee desired outcomes and no doubt God wouldn’t either. That’s where a lot of frustration with these issues comes from. It sounds like this If I follow the correct set of rules I should be rewarded with the best outcome.” Often we don’t follow the rules very well or if we do we aren’t rewarded for it in ways we feel we should be rewarded. Some people give up and declare the whole thing pointless others double down and try harder. Then some are just psychos who don’t follow the rules but take advantage of those who try to follow them. Regardless if God came down to us and said harming an animal in any form is morally bad.” And we for whatever reason know there is no higher authority than God I guess God = no higher authority then it is objectively morally bad to harm animals. The result of that though can be whatever outcome until God says and the punishment for harming animals is you’re no longer allowed to be near them.” &lt— Here is where we are actually concerned with moral objectivity. We aren’t as interested in the truth of the claims but more the results the stem from the truth. For a Christian following God’s rules prevents the punishment of hell. If there were no punishment or hell then Christians wouldn’t really follow the rules. One wonders if the majority truly do anyway. But their lack of adherence to acting as if morality is objective doesn’t negate the claim that if God existed and decrees a set of objective moral values that they lose their objective status. There is a point other people made which I agree with being that you are treating God like any normal entity which isn’t an accurate comparison because God creates and enforces the laws of the universe the same way he enforces the laws of morality which are themselves ingrained within the physical world we observe. In this case the existence of God necessarily means the existence of a moral framework whether you are able to perceive its existence or not that enforces an objective morality. Perhaps a clearer example would be that given a God exists there would be an explicit framework of the rules of physics or maybe an even more foundational system that enforces the laws of nature that exists whether or not you are able to describe it with your current knowledge. Despite both being abstract concepts both the rules of physics and the rules of morality would be objective laws that are equally real within the physical world we inhabit. The argument I’m making hinges on the possibility that we can describe the universe in a way similar to Plato’s theory of forms where the highest form is by definition God. So heres the thing. People confuse subjective with context. Is it moral to kill? No. Ofcourse not. Is it moral to kill someone whos charging you with a weapon in hand? Yeah thats different now isnt it. Morality isnt subjective in that it suddenly gets different from person to person. We all have a pretty decent sense of right and wrong and people who dont are most often privileged enough to believe that stealing when hungry or other similar things are immoral. So if you were to swap those two words out id agree with you morality is context dependant with or without god... but subjective? No morality is not subjective with or without God. There are right answers to moral questions and they become obvious when people get to talk. What makes morality \*seem\* subjective is when people start defending immoral people and actions because those people are on their side or the odd occasion of a trolly problem... but real life is not full of trolly problems. There \*ARE\* right answers and we do know them for the most part topics just end up discussed at a level of detail that makes it seem unclear. One argument I often hear from religious people is stuff like how would we have learned morality without the guidance of god. But morality can come from evolution just like everything else. Take a pack of wolves for example wolves dont worship God but will always show compassion towards their pack and look after each other. This occurs because over time the animals that did not display social traits either evolved a different biology to survive as a solitary animal or they died out due to being alone. The animals that were social survived due to having a group to protect them and they go on to continue the evolution. If those animals did not evolve to look out for each other displaying what we may call morals they would not be here today. We are no different. We exist because we developed a social structure. If we had no concept of caring for our friends or family we wouldnt have gotten this far. Its the same reason neanderthals did not survive as well as homosapians they were more solitary by nature. You also miss the easy win with this train of thought. If God is all knowing all powerful and everywhere/ at all points in time we were created with full knowledge of the paths this would lead to. If God knows all paths that we could or would be led down giving both as the subject of free will is too expansive to also include in this then he set the wheels of our fate in motion. This renders Gods morality as no more than pointless virtue signalling. If God wanted us to stick within the confines of the morality that it created then it would not create those with the circumstances that could lead or will most definitely lead to those outcomes. Which means God is either toying with the human race by doing one thing asking for another...Or God is not omnipresent omnipotent and omniscient. Which means God cannot possibly understand all outcomes and this renders Gods morality as subjective. Through a narrow perspective not unlike ours. The third option is that God does not exist. I know there is a fourth option that the Devil is the reason that this disharmony exists. This cycles right back to the same arguments as before. If God can see all God knew the Devil would betray it. Therefore God created the Devil with that specific awareness and is essentially being a hypocrite. [removed] Some morality is more objective than others some things we all know are just wrong its not an individual cultural or social thing its hardwired. The exceptions are extreme individuals often with some mental health issue at play like psychopathy. Others are more subjective social norms belief systems etc. all influence the moral code we hold ourselves and others too with shades of gray between them. Bringing God into it I dont think changes that some things are hardwired be it through God or genetics or other fundamentals that make us human others are environmental... On the question of morality being subjective or objective the answer like most things in a complex world is a bit of both. Benefits are subjective. Morality is a category of language that describes the outcome of an action. Morals and morality are objective of the actors being examined. It is not correct to even ask if morality is subjective because words have meanings that matter. Morality is a yes/ no bool function. Its objective because it measures the effect of an action from author to affected. The way an action affects someone is independent of intent of the author. Only the calculated change can answer if an action caused harm or not. Harm to dignity is what morality calculates. Is there harm? Yes or no. Thats what defines an action as moral or not. Theres a more fundamental objection than the one animating your premise. The assertion that morality is subjective without God is nonsensical on its face. The morality presented in the bible is wildly inconsistent. The god of the bible rather than reflecting any kind of morality we might agree upon is capricious narcissistic childish greedy unforgiving. Right up to the point that he has a psychological break and starts preaching a bit of compassion along side warnings of everlasting hell fire. Identifying any solid or consistent moral framework from this catalog of malice vengefulness absolutism and insanity is impossible. The objectivity of morality has nothing to do with god being real. If morality is objective then an omniscient God would know exactly what the right thing is. Furthermore if God is real *and* the creator of reality then they would know precisely the nature of the system. If morality is subjective then it would be so regardless of Gods existence. However you are arguing from an assumption that morality *is* subjective when that is not at all known to be true. It is true that morality wouldnt be objective just because God says so but that doesnt mean that morality cannot be objective in any other way. I agree with OP. This is essentially the same as the paradox of definitions there is no objective way to measure the goodness of a definition. For instance I could say For the sake of argument let us temporarily define all cats as dogs. You would say that its a terrible definition to which I would reply Yes but for the sake of argument that is the definition we are using at the moment. And we would both be correct. You will find that objectivity requires agreement upon definitions and agreement is a subjective thing. So at the end of the day youll still be dealing with subjectiveness. IF god is real and he communicates what is good or what is bad etc etc we as the humans still have to receive and interpret the message right? Subjectivity galore. How come the biggest abrahamic religions technically believe in the same godnot necessarily in jesus etc etc yes but dont have the exact same morality or values? In this scenario I think then there would be an absolute source but practically morality would still be subjective since how do we know who unambiguously understood it correctly? Personally I still believe there is no source but yeah Well Ive looked at a bita philosophy and theology and from what I hear the idea is that Gods essence would be goodness. That is to say goodness and God are one. Things are not good because God says they are good but instead God is the goodness inside of things. For example the idea that murder is evil. Under many schools of thought God could not make murder moral. He could not reverse the ten comandments. This is because such things are logically impossible like the idea of a square circle or 2+2=5. The idea is that the existence of God is the *reason* we instinctively feel that some things are right or wrong. The argument is thus that without God there would either be no reason for us to have that moral sense in that first place or where such a moral system may evolve e.g. if being altrustic means a higher likelihood of our community’s survival but have no inherent objective meaning because a different developmental path may have led to a completely opposite idea of what is good or evil. Imagine a society where torturing little kids to death by slowly removing their body parts was considered the greatest moral good perhaps because it genuinely aids the survival of their people. If the idea still inherently feels wrong to you vs something you can accept as a different culture then that instinctive distaste is supposed to be because of God’s morality. Potato tomato. Even if objective morals existed given the amount of different religions and denominations out there it is abundantly clear that we do not have any way of knowing what those objective morals are. Atheists live like there are no objective morals. Theists live like there are objective morals that they have no way of knowing. Same same. Not trying to change your mind. Because God says so is as subjective as it can get and this kind of argument is an appeal to authority so it doesnt mean youre a morally good person if you follow Gods rules youre just obedient. IMHO Morality is always subjective because its tied to the existence of sentient empathetic beings. Do not fret. I am here to award you grand insights. Let’s start with that argument that tricked you into awarding a delta. What is objectivity? Well let’s approach it from this angle. Objective good is like a box. Everyone agrees on the box. What they don’t agree on is what goes in the box. What we place therein? Is what we personally view as good—our subjective view. This same image can be applied to objective ______” whatever it is it is like a box. However objectivity itself is greater. It is the container of all things—the undeniable. How does it achieve this status? Fools think it is by fleeing from subjectivity but that’s foolishness. The objective viewpoint is synonymous with the truth” and truth is allencompassing. Everything is true even a lie for a lie is truly a lie. It is only a deception to the one who lacks awareness but with an awareness of all it is simply precisely what it is honestly a lie. Thus the objective viewpoint being all encompassing must encompass even the lies we call subjective viewpoints”. Yes the objective view is itself an amalgamation of all subjective viewpoints. It is the totality the collective the multitude made one. It could exist no other way you see. When you understand this you understand that in truth there are lies in form and yet there is no lie in function for the function of a lie relies on a limited awareness. Likewise in truth there are paradoxes in form but no paradoxes in function for the function of a paradox relies on the absence of an explanation which like all things must be accounted for. Now you are glimpsing the insanity of any human ever claiming to hold an objective position but also you better understand the nature of the claim as someone expressing their intention to amalgamate all available perspectives into their own—to expand their view. But of course those efforts will always fall woefully short of the objective on account of its incredible breadth. Even if theoretically someone were able to see everything they would only destroy their minds in the process for in seeing everything they could not avoid seeing themselves for they are themselves a part of everything. This is what is called the endless glance” when one looks upon themselves looking upon themselves looking upon…themselves and so on and so forth unto eternity. In this realm? A moment but for the one who looks? An eternity. It reads like a paradox but had you a better understanding it would read like inevitability. This is why the advised methods of obtaining objectivity all demand that the viewer be present outside of the whole. This is why the pursuit of objectivity often lends itself to the development of an interest in escaping reality. But is that actually possible? Yes. Sounds cool right? It isn’t. By definition it is the opposite of cool. It is the opposite of everything. It is the abandonment of this and the pursuit of that. And it is achievable only achievable by way of the grace of logic. That is to say it cannot be achieved innately with reason. Reason is the fabric of our reality. Logic is what underpins and encompasses it. Logic is greater and thus through logic all is made possible even the impossible. The impossible becomes possible when you realize that you can draw beyond the boarder of the paper. That is when you realize that you are free—when the law and reason are no longer restricting you Now to some it might sound as though I am saying that Logic is God. Not at all. However if you diligently study the dynamic of Logic and Law you will witness one of the aspects of God the facilitator. Just as Logic facilitates Law so too does God facilitate that which gives definition and order to our reality. I understand this and much more. I have delved deeper and stood higher. Now I turn to you with this test of thought Given all of this what do you think God views as being morally good? theres no way to have unpopular opinions be meaningfully heard by politician that would be fair. There just isnt ....... because there is an inherent imbalance in the way political influence operates in modern representative democracies. The mechanisms by which citizens are meant to be heard such as voting public discourse or peaceful protest are often insufficient when it comes to unpopular or minority opinions particularly those that lack financial backing. Lobbying plays an outsized role in shaping policy but it is largely the domain of the wealthy and powerful. This makes it difficult if not impossible for average people to gain comparable access or sway. When the political process allows money to amplify voices those without it are left speaking into a void. Unpopular opinions even when morally or intellectually sound are drowned out not because they lack merit but because they lack capital. Politicians facing electoral pressures media narratives and party interests gravitate toward donorfriendly policies..... not peoplefriendly ones. And when these same politicians enact laws that serve elite or narrow interests the burden of those decisions often falls on the broader public. The public pays the taxes faces the consequences and sees their material conditions change and often for the worse without having had a real chance to influence the outcome. In this way the system not only fails to represent the unpopular or the marginalized but actively compels them to fund policies they opposed. This isnt just a failure of communication or organization its a structural contradiction. Without radically altering how influence is distributed in the political process theres no path for unpopular views to be treated with equal seriousness fairness or consequence. And yes all this applies to lobbying for good things too. Lobbying will never be fair because instead of targeting the public and trying to appeal to them. It captures the state which is an institution funded and paid for by the majority The mechanisms by which citizens are meant to be heard such as voting public discourse or peaceful protest are often insufficient when it comes to unpopular or minority opinions. You realise its by design right? The entire point of a democracy is that only popular policies become law.. CMV theres no way to have unpopular opinions be meaningfully heard by politician that would be fair. Define unpopular. You pointed out an obvious means to amplify many potentially unpopular opinions to be heard ....the political process allows money to amplify voices... Did you mean to say politicians are unable to hear ideas that fails to profit them?! At a national level youre largely right but it tends to be a lot easier to get in touch with people at a local level and at the end of the day local government has a lot more impact on your daytoday life than the federal government does. Schools roads parks sales taxes property taxes law enforcement zoning all of these things are primarily managed locally. I can get a meeting with my mayor next week if I want to. I can probably get a meeting with my city council meeting by tomorrow afternoon. Ive got my state senators phone number in my contacts because our kids are friends. Youd be surprised how much you can get done to impact your life and the life of those around you by focusing on the local level rather than thinking you need to make changes at a national level. If you can get it done locally *and it works* other localities will look at the policy thats working for your city or state and adopt it there but even if they dont youve made an impact for the people close to you. I like to point out that a lot of people put too much weight on the importance of national policy and particularly the president primarily because of how the news cycle works. National media has a potential audience of hundreds of *millions* of people. If they can get people wound up about national politics they can sell lots of expensive ads. Covering local politics requires just as much work but their potential audience is tens or hundreds of *thousands*. They cant make nearly as much money selling ads to a small audience as they can a big audience. So they focus on the larger market and play up the importance of those policies. That doesnt mean those are actually the more important policies it just means thats what their incentives lead them to focus on. While this is to some extent true its important to remember than when it comes to politics opinions should be rooted in reality and facts. Sure certain things are axiomatic and there will always be disagreement among people concerning certain values that society should be organized around but when it comes to offering solution that are morally or logically sound their practical merits can speak for themselves in the sense that you can convince more people to your unpopular opinion until it becomes popular and will be heard. Some ideas that seemed fringe a century ago are now broadly accepted because the people who held them managed to convince the majority that implementing these ideas would indeed help the society. Some ideas that were widely accepted before are now fringe because it was shown that they do not work and when implemented make the majority unhappy. So while yes ideas that are currently unpopular wont be heard by politicians currently if they hold merit they can be amplified and might become popular down the line. Minority opinions can be made heard well enough it’s more that they might not be listened to. In the 70’s in Sweden a small number of people occupied a stairwell at the government agency responsible for things like disease classifications with the intent to get homosexuality removed as a mental illness. They got to speak with the agency chief. It was just a few dozen people but it’s still mentioned as an important part of gay rights in Sweden. People still protest visibly today. Look at the current headlines about Greta Thunberg trying to break the blockade of Gaza. Those aren’t a lot of people but they make massive headlines. Whether someone listens to you when you’re a minority is a different matter entirely. There need to be some definitions here. When I tell my kids they need to listen I really mean they need to obey. But when I tell adults to listen I mean to let me speak and to consider my words. That last bit is lobbying and its often done. Thats one way how unpopular opinions are heard. Another is protest. Dont be fooled by the large masses of people if it were popular it would already by law. [removed] When it comes to mental health we are in the equivalent of pre germ theory medicine Basically psychology and psychiatry are very undeveloped when stuff like the origins of adhd or depression are unknown and the medicine we use are mostly a hammer we use because it kind of works. Moreover the general population lacks basic the equivalent of basic hygiene for mental health and completely lacks even a basic knowledge on what mental health treatments even entail. For example apparently there are different types of therapy as in completely different methods. I have gone to three different psychologist and none told me this I learned this from the internet later on. Would you admit this is largely because it’s a much more complex object of study versus a matter of scientific attitude? For starters what if there is no equivalent of the germ theory but many different phenomenon with their own causal mechanisms to explore. And for some of them we have made a lot of progress studying them but not all of them yet. Basically psychology and psychiatry are very undeveloped when stuff like the origins of adhd or depression But to call it Pre Germ Theory would be semantically inaccurate because its not like Mr. Pasteur discovered germs and then 15 minutes later published the Bible of Bacteriology and Virology that we still treat as holy to this day. We certainly dont have as firm a grasp on how the brain and mental health works as some other medical sciences... But to say were Prebasicunderstandingofwhatsgoingon is a bit dramatic. Pre germ theory was when we blamed mental health on demons or witches or women knowing how to read instead of understanding neurochemistry or anything like that. Moreover the general population lacks basic Ask a member of The General Population about any random obscure medical condition and what the treatment is and see what their response is. They probably wont know because theyre not doctors or patients suffering from that specific condition so theyve no reason to know... For example apparently there are different types of therapy as in completely different methods. A professional is probably going to recommend the types of therapy they think would benefit a client the most a client is not going to have this insight themselves a lot of the time. I’d argue that we actually do have a good sense of what causes ADHD and depression as well as many other diagnostic constructs. It’s interesting that there’s this narrative that we don’t know.” For example it’s claimed that we don’t know the source of ASD but there’s actually been quite a few studies that have found genetic origins and differences in brain scans. I know this isn’t an example you used and in this sense ASD is actually a more direct answer than a lot of other diagnoses. I don’t think it’s true that we don’t have some answers. I think that the answers are fundamentally unsatisfying to people because the reality is that most of these constructs are multifactoral in nature. It’s not like when you get a virus and then you’re sick and it’s because of the virus. It’s more like an accumulation of many different variables and factors that can eventually create that outcome. Most of the time we’re looking at genetics life stressors personality traits history trauma. Some cases of schizophrenia have been demonstrated to be an autoimmune response. But not all. As a venting aside this is also why I frequently see that medical doctors who try to come in and do psychology studies do the absolute worst psychology studies. Not across the board but enough of a trend to be noticeable. They have not actually trained their brain in a way that can think flexibly about the multifactoral nature of human psychology. And you don’t see many psychologists trying to do medical studies so I’m not sure why this is a thing other than psychological expertise is perceived as less credible than other types of expertise. But I would not characterize this as being underdeveloped. There’s been quite a lot of development into many lines of inquiry. It’s just never going to give you the full picture. You’re going to have to go down other rabbit holes too. This is also why we need a lot of options when it comes to interventions because the idea that we need to find one magic bullet that will completely solve the problem for everyone? Never going to happen. There’s too much diversity in human behavior and people’s underlying philosophical orientation mediates how they respond to an intervention in addition to the nature of the issue itself and other demographics and history of a person. You need to provide different interventions that hinge on different philosophies solve different problems and are adapted for different groups to meet the full demand. In general we do have some direction as to what will work for people in a big picture way and it’s generally doing all the things or as many things as possible with no single thing being sufficient on its own. Go to individual therapy go to a support group take medicine have a fulfilling hobby etc. People who do more things in taking care of their mental health generally have better mental health outcomes. And it’s probably because the issues are multifactoral and each prong of attack can address a different factor better than another approach so you have to have multiple responses to a multifactorial problem. Under developed? No. Fully developed? Also no. But I don’t want to take away credit for what the field has managed to accomplish especially given how unwieldy the entire project can be. Id say we are in the cigarette era of mental health. We actually know a lot about mental health conditions what causes them and how to fix them. But doing those things would cost a lot of people a lot of money. So we dont do it. But science understands it. We know for example that keeping people in poverty will make them more susceptible to depression and anxiety. Well anxiety also makes you easier to manipulate. So rather than use the knowledge we have to calm people down? Its used to make people *more* anxious. To be fair most medicine today is rather barbaric. The future of medicine will be in personalized therapies specific to our genomes. Still though finally recognizing what is wrong and what is right for people. Different therapies means more approaches to treating something in the same vein we have different antibiotics to cover for different specimens and resistance. We are not in pregerm era because we understand it exist and is not merely some fantastical boogeyman though some can see it that way. We have come far enough to understand that disorders are more complicated than just depression” or hysteria” or homosexual”. We can separate it from the person when necessary and examine it holistically where necessary. We know it is deviant dysfunctional disorder and distressing as the criteria. There is even a cultural aspect such as how schizophrenia fails to exist in some cultures and abundant among others. It is vastly complex and more accessible than ever and it’s by no means pregerm mental health where we are taking stabs at it with phrenology or orgasms to cure dysfunction. The level of imaging gene studies and bio markers we use today to understand it would perplex scientists at the height of germ theory. This is fundamentally due to the lack of a working theory of consciousness. We have a relatively advanced understanding of how specific molecules function in the brain or how synaptic circuits or brain regions correspond to peculiarities in behavior but we lack a general understanding of how neural systems manifest or find expression over time through the lived experience of consciousness. Mental disorders are disordered states of consciousness not merely neurological pathologies. Mental health treatment works by altering conscious experience pharmaceuticals or retraining it / redirecting it away from negative patterns therapy. We can explain rather cohesively how all of the organs in the body function but we cannot yet explain the brain because we have not yet solved the hard problem of consciousness. It’s much more complex than just pregerm it’s like medicine before we understood normal physiology. Psychological diseases are still basically syndromes. Nondrug studies are very difficult to interpret because they cannot be double blinded and the outcomes are almost ways subjective. You mentioned there are three types of therapy but from what I can tell there is no limit to the types of therapy. There’s an old saying in medicine. If there’s a lot of treatments either all of them work or none of them work. yuptheres a ted x talk about it but uh it might be different Radical selfacceptance is the ONLY thing stopping people from achieving their dreams. First off a lot of people hate selfdevelopment because they’ve swallowed the radical selfacceptance pill. Therapy teaches them to be okay with who you are” and they take that to mean change is betrayal. That works for the system because stable selfaccepting people make good predictable workers. So now a radically failing identity that has nothing going for them feels stable and unique. Growth looks like selfhate. It feels like a demand to conform to chase status to play the social game they already opted out of. These are folks who don’t feel part of the hierarchy anyway. They don’t go out to night clubs have no cool” social circles and often belong to LGBTQ or similarly marginalized communities. They’ve lived alone with their pain so long that changing feels like abandoning the only person who ever stuck by them themselves. So when they see someone chasing growth they resent it. It’s a mirror of the life they gave up on. Nice repost but I still think you should just stop watching blackpill Youtubers. There are approximately a thousand societal reasons why people dont achieve their dreams from lack of funds to disability to personal tragedy to family obligations. I understand that its hard and scary to live in a universe where you can fail for no reason not on your own personal merit but simply because something terrible and external happened to you. But thats the universe that we do live in. People get cancer. They go into medical bankruptcy. Their kid dies in a horrible tragic accident and they spiral into a yearlong depression hole. Its not about \~the queers just dont try hard enough\~. We live in an unfair society in an unfair universe and sometimes you have to step back and admit it. Selfacceptance doesnt mean not wanting to improve. It means not being constantly disappointed in yourself or angry at yourself. It means having a constructive outlook rather than blaming oneself its important to accept where you are both strengths and flaws in a realistic nonjudgmental way. That doesnt mean one cant have goals that include improving ones flaws one can accept oneself without judgment while also arriving to change because one *wants* to rather than because one feels one *should*. Most of the force behind selfacceptance is about ceasing to place too much value on what *others* think. Successful people routinely report that they got where they did by not caring too much what others thought of them. Thats a key factor in selfacceptance. Confidence is incredibly important for achieving ones dreams. Selfacceptance is a way that many people can achieve confidence. It was my dream to play in the NFL. Im 58 180. I played a lot of sports but I was just never very athletic. The NFL has limited roster spots. Not everybody who dreams of playing in the NFL can make it just based on numbers alone. You have plenty of cases of guys who dominated in college because of insane work ethic but never get drafted because of physical limitations. Lots of people dream of being the president. We only have 1 of those every 4 years. If all of those people fully committed to their dream of trying to be president it is literally impossible for them all to achieve their goal. Sounds like theres other obstacles to achieving dreams. Lots of people fully commit to chasing a dream and it doesnt work out. There are plenty of different reasons for that. Blaming it ONLY on radical selfacceptance doesnt make sense. Therapy teaches them to be okay with who you are” and they take that to mean change is betrayal. This does not comport with any form of therapy Ive ever experienced or heard about. The whole point of therapy is to change. Change is not seen as betrayal but success. Radical Self Acceptance does not mean a total rejection of personal change and growth. Growth looks like selfhate. No it doesnt. If I accept that I am bad at remembering names but I endeavor to get better at this this is not self hate. I do not *hate myself* for being bad at remembering names I just see that being remembered is important to others and I want to give them the respect of remembering their name so I work on it. But since I accept that this is a failing I have I do not flagellate myself when I happen to non remember a name. when they see someone chasing growth they resent it. No they encourage it. I accept myself and I accept that I have flaws that I could address to become a more wellrounded person why would I resent another for the same? Totally get where you’re coming from and I don’t think wanting to grow is bad in itself. But here’s my take a lot of what we call selfdevelopment today feels more like we’re optimizing ourselves to death under a capitalist logic. It’s not about freedom or becoming who you really are — it’s about becoming more productive more efficient more valuable.” It’s like we’ve turned personal growth into a neverending startup pitch and we’re the product. If you squint at it through an existentialist lens it’s kind of tragic. Instead of embracing the absurd like Camus would suggest or confronting our freedom like Sartre pushed for we’re just building a shinier version of ourselves to survive in a system that demands constant upgrading. So yeah selfimprovement can be meaningful. But when it becomes a tool to make us better cogs instead of freer humans it stops being personal development — and starts being just another form of selfexploitation. This seems to fail on its face as people werent achieving their dreams long before radical selfacceptance was a thing. And just from observing the world the main reason people dont achieve their dreams seems to very obviously be lack of capital. I don’t fully agree. Not all therapy teaches people to just accept themselves” and never change. I had a few bad therapists too they didn’t help and just kept me coming back without giving real advice. But then I found a great psychologist who changed my life. I had a good job with barely any hours and he said You’ve got too much free time. Find more hobbies go back to school on weekends or get more work.” That simple advice helped me get out of a mild depression. It was actually kind of surprising and honestly counterintuitive for a therapist to tell me You don’t need to come here anymore.” Most people in that position would want to keep a paying client. I could tell he actually cared about helping people not just stretching out sessions forever. That one bit of honest advice did more for me than months of aimless therapy before. Therapy isn’t the problem. bad therapists are. Good therapy can push you toward growth not just tell you to stay the same. There’s therapy for addictions life coaching and more. It depends who you get. what about like reality the world around you the odds that are stacked against you that you have no control over Do disabilities exist? Some people are in jail. What if my dreams are physically impossible? Surely this isnt the ONLY reason as you say in all caps. How are people who are nakedly ambitious and grindset mindset people not also performing selfacceptance? Self acceptance doesnt mean never wanting anything more or different. Depends on the dream. People are generally pretty similar so most dreams have a saturation point. If 5000 people dream of being astronauts but only 10 are needed each year most wont achieve it simply on that. Theres plenty of other stuff too. Could be too tall to be a pilot for example This starts with the assumption that everyones dreams are genuinely achievable. If Im 52 tall theres no amount of radical self acceptance that will get me into the NBA. There are countless reasons people cant achieve their dreams. You think there is a 0% chance that someone being born in gaza sudan etc etc might have an impact on achieveing their dreams? All problems that men face in the modern world were brought on by themselves. Thus men are the ones who bear the responsibility for fixing those problems. FWIW Im a 40 year old man myself. And I do care a great deal about my fellow men. Its why Im writing this in the first place. I just have yet to come across a problem that men face in the modern world that was not actually our own fault when you really get to the heart of the issue. Lets start with the biggest one of all mental health. There are multiple ways in which weve really fucked this one up for ourselves. We gave in to our machismo and continue to worship the image of the strong and dominant male an image that leaves no room for vulnerability. Men who seek therapy are soy boys. Hell men who *so much as want a suitable earth climate for their own goddamn KIDS* are soy boys. We value competition with each other we knock people down because the sportsball team they follow lost a game BTW Im a huge sportsball fan myself go Wolves go Vikings. We rage at someone because they had the audacity to outplay us at that video game we hoped we were better at. Do we ever stop and think about how petty and pathetic these behaviors really are? And to delve into suicide trigger warning men die from suicide more often because they adamantly refuse to admit the welldocumented wellresearched wellunderstood phenomenon where simply having a gun in your home raises your risk of suicide. Im a public health researcher myself and I have researched this very topic professionally and I am continually disappointed at how deeply men will bury their heads in the sand over this one. Men kill themselves more often because they keep guns in their homes more often. Its really that simple. Women even suffer more commonly from depression than men do and yet men still end up dying more often from suicide largely because they more often choose more violent means of suicide because they allow themselves access to those means and adamantly REFUSE to admit that it increases their death by suicide risk. Or how about our economic standing or our ability to get that job were hoping for? Women have caught up with men academically and I believe have even surpassed men at this point as men still think studying is for nerds and college is all just gender studies so why bother and the result is that men fall behind academically. And as for DEI programs Im not convinced that this is anything other than men having had more power authority and standing than they really ought to have had in the past and they gained more than their fair share in the past and their outrage at DEI is simply that they are losing something. I dont at all buy that DEI has gone BEYOND the point where it is actually disadvantaging men at that point as I dont know of any DEI programs that ultimately want say 60% women 40% men / any ratio that doesnt reflect an unbiased crosssection of humanity in that respective category. Ive just never seen a good example of men being victimized by some other demographic that exploited their power in a way that caused harm to men. I see plenty of instances of men losing power they shouldnt have had in the first place sure. I dont agree that any loss of any kind is inherently bad if its a loss of what one really ought to have not had in the first place. And everything else sure seems to me like its an issue of men shooting themselves in the foot. All of this is why I find it so dumb and gross when men actually try to blame others for their own problems like women in particular. Blaming women for them not wanting to have sex with you or even go on a date with you? Fucking pathetic. I blame ourselves for not doing enough to present ourselves as appealing partners to women. CMV. Even if you blame the ways men can be victimized on past men custody battles alimony rulings attitudes about displaying emotion being pushed into more dangerous jobs getting more jail time for the same crimes that’s not a reason to not try and fix these issues. And it’s definitely not a reason to blame the current men that are affected by these things. I agree that men don’t face the same types of discrimination and victimization that women do. But saying they aren’t victimized at all or that these types of issues aren’t worth discussing because it’s their fault anyway” is just a silly way to look at it Links for all this available on request whether you are OP or not. Please just be specific about what *exactly* youd like explained or I will not be replying. Lets start with the biggest one of all mental health. There are multiple ways in which weve really fucked this one up for ourselves. We gave in to our machismo and continue to worship the image of the strong and dominant male an image that leaves no room for vulnerability. Men who seek therapy are soy boys. Hell men who *so much as want a suitable earth climate for their own goddamn KIDS* are soy boys. We value competition with each other we knock people down because the sportsball team they follow lost a game BTW Im a huge sportsball fan myself go Wolves go Vikings. Youre very close to finishing this thought. Why are these traits valued? Who values them? What do they achieve? Put another way who enforces these values? And to delve into suicide trigger warning men die from suicide more often because they adamantly refuse to admit the welldocumented wellresearched wellunderstood phenomenon where simply having a gun in your home raises your risk of suicide. Im a public health researcher myself and I have researched this very topic professionally and I am continually disappointed at how deeply men will bury their heads in the sand over this one. Men kill themselves more often because they keep guns in their homes more often. Its really that simple. Women even suffer more commonly from depression than men do and yet men still end up dying more often from suicide largely because they more often choose more violent means of suicide because they allow themselves access to those means and adamantly REFUSE to admit that it increases their death by suicide risk. This fails to address the wellknown phenomenon of mens attempts being orders of magnitude more successful than womens even when controlled for method. A man who slits his wrist or takes pills is still much more likely to die and a woman who shoots herself far less likely to die. Or how about our economic standing or our ability to get that job were hoping for? Women have caught up with men academically and I believe have even surpassed men at this point as men still think studying is for nerds and college is all just gender studies so why bother and the result is that men fall behind academically. Studies indicate that arbitrary and capricious enforcement of rules and sexist grading practices by female teachers at all levels also male teachers at the High School level for obvious reasons are significantly larger contributors to the education gap. Boys are not rewarded nearly as well for academic success and are punished more severely for failures. Ive just never seen a good example of men being victimized by some other demographic that exploited their power in a way that caused harm to men. I see plenty of instances of men losing power they shouldnt have had in the first place sure. I dont agree that any loss of any kind is inherently bad if its a loss of what one really ought to have not had in the first place. And everything else sure seems to me like its an issue of men shooting themselves in the foot. Please read The Second Sex. Simone de Beauvoir famously lays out her strategy to deprive men of leverage and to win the perpetual sex conflict she sees by applying marxist theory to sex relations. The strategy she outlines is quite wellreflected in secondwave feminist tactics. Edit While checking to see if youre actually just a woman doing some trolling and whether this was a discussion worth engaging with I stumbled upon this beauty I guess my main comment here is that unhealthy lifestyles are not so much a choice as they are a coping mechanism. Bad habits are generally the result of some combination of poor mental health and bad life circumstances. Speaking as someone who dealt with alcohol addiction and once never exercised then later discovered how much better life could be with regular exercise and no alcohol I cant imagine ever making the conscious choice to live like that again. I understand youve gone through something here and that radical selfreliance is the strategy that pulled you out of it but even you seem to understand that these behaviors you complain about are caused and worsened by social determinants of health. This paragraph write here out of your own mouth explains many of the things you complain about in your post. You got out. Thousands of others dont. Suicide guns and mental health — You argue that men die by suicide more often because they refuse to acknowledge the risk of keeping guns at home. Yes it’s true that access to firearms increases the lethality of suicide attempts. But your framing oversimplifies a complex issue and veers into victimblaming. Here’s the thing countries like Australia where guns are heavily restricted still have comparable male suicide rates. The method changes — less gun use more hanging or poisoning — but the outcome remains. That alone dismantles the idea that this is really that simple.” Guns are a factor in lethality but they’re not the core cause. If removing guns solved male suicide places like Australia wouldn’t still be facing the same crisis. The real drivers are social isolation underdiagnosed depression lack of emotional support and stigma around men seeking help — all of which are cultural and systemic not purely malecreated. You’re also ignoring that the stigma around male vulnerability is upheld by everyone not just men. Women media schools family systems — all contribute to shaping the strong silent” archetype that isolates men emotionally. And no men aren’t adamantly refusing” to face facts — many are trying to navigate a system that hasn’t given them the tools language or space to process their pain in healthier ways. Blaming them wholesale for dying is callous inaccurate and ultimately undermines any real progress toward fixing the problem. Edit To show you’re actually arguing in good faith here I do expect you to admit that the guns argument is completely baseless and my point proves that. I´m missing What could change your view? Over generalizing. Define modern world. I don’t generally think poverty or disease are always the product of choice. Skol. So much of the mental health crisis in Western countries has nothing to do with machismo or toxic masculinity. Sure a big part of it does but a good deal more has to do with the profound sense of alienation people experience in modern society. People are expected to live with their parents and then leave then live with roommates until they make enough money then live alone until they find a partner. Everything is private multigenerational living is scarce. People try to fill the void in their socialization by retreating to online communities. This is not how humans evolved to live and its not really about men or women. Its the result of prosperity of our values of individualism and freedom. Not necessarily bad things in and of themselves! But ones that have led to a rather unforeseen bad outcome. Legal discrimination of men is not self inflicted even if some other men are in government and passing misandrist laws. This is includes draft differences in retirement age different punishment for same crimes. Schools/education is biased against boys and it it at least partially not self inflicted. So blaming boys for being just lazy is not a solution. There are significant double standards in dating/relationships. Women who freed themselves from gendered norms still expect men to adhere to these norms provider protector proactive decision maker etc There are significant double standards in dealing with IPV. Male victims are treated as perpetrators. See Duluth model. Lots of discrimination of men that is not selfinflicted. Men need to actually band together and fight for their rights. Not because they are the cause of their own problems. but because society DGAF about male problems. Until men actually fight for their own interests there will be no change for the better. Who is this we? The problem with this kind of victim blaming is that all the problems supposedly created by men are not created by the *same* men who are getting fucked over by the system. Hint you dont see DEI because youre 40 and presumably got your career off the ground before it became increasingly overt or as a researcher have never left academia. You dont believe in the reality 20 year olds face because you have nothing in common with them. Youre doing the equivalent of the boomers giving job advice about waltzing into a business and asking to see the manager. The stigma against vulnerability is 10x more upheld by women than by men. Spend some time on r/askmen and youll see dozens of men talk about how their mom gave them the man up BS much harder than their father did. Or how their SO got the ick and left them the first time they showed vulnerability or just weaponized it against them. And this entire rant runs into the core issue no other group is being told to solve their own problems. Every group has ongoing issues that they are the primary driver of. 100% of student debt the student signed on the dotted line for. But society is being asked to fix it for them. Category/individual issue. I as a man may face a number of obstacles and enjoy a number of privileges in much greater amount I might add the creation of which I had nothing to do with. Blaming me or crediting me for society’s view of men doesn’t seem to make a lot of sense to me. As for mental health was it only men who created these conditions? I seem to recall being told a number of times to buck up or get over it or be a man” by women throughout my life. Do you like the way they figured it out the first time? Because thats how theyre going to do it again if you dont feel like being a part of the solution boys getting abused by their mothers. sexually. physically. emotionally. not their father. not another man. just their mother. worship the image of the strong and dominant male **You** worship the surface level idea of a strong and dominant male. Men who seek therapy are soy boys. Hell men who *so much as want a suitable earth climate for their own goddamn KIDS* are soy boys. Men who act as though they are powerless are called soy boys. Men who complain with no action are called soy boys. We value competition with each other Nothing wrong with this. we knock people down because the sportsball team they follow lost a game Nothing wrong with this unless youre talking about actual violence or abuse. We rage at someone because they had the audacity to outplay us at that video game we hoped we were better at. This is young men who havent been taught the value of being a good loser. Do we ever stop and think about how petty and pathetic these behaviors really are? We do and we have numerous stories movies and role models to show how to be a strong man a dominant man and a healthy man. men die from suicide more often because they adamantly refuse to admit I highly doubt these are the same men that are fighting against the statistics. This point doesnt seem relevant. largely because they more often choose more violent means of suicide So it isnt the gun really its the fact that they choose a means that is more guaranteed to end them. A gun is just quicker and gives no time to recover or retreat. men still think studying is for nerds I have never encountered this in my life and I grew up in a town with race gangs. To me it sounds like youre online too much. You bring up way too many issues and try to cram them into the box of Its men fault and they should fix it but they are stubborn. But in that same vein arent you being stubborn? You KNOW a strong man isnt a man that has no weakness but a man who can control or compensate for his weakness. Thats shown in all media with strong men. You **know** theres nothing wrong with friendly competition and elbow jabbing among accepting peers. You **know** that everyone should learn how to accept losses. Im willing to generalize for the sake of this. You **know** that when a grown man sees a young boy with potential he will **support** him in that. Sure some people adults might not value certain academia but how often are you really seeing **grown men** admonish young boys/men for trying to become smart? Where are you that something like that is so common? men face in the modern world that was not actually our own fault Did I grow up and obtain a loving relationship and fine career because of myself or did the community around me shape me and help mold my values rewarding and punishing as I wandered through the world? Its clearly both. A boy who learns he cant be weak was punished for it by his community and came away with the logical conclusion and no one else in that community told him and/or rewarded him for being weak in the future. Thats not only on men thats everyone. Yes focusing on 1 group to blame is dumb but saying its all mens faults is the same as blaming women gays blacks or any other individual group or organization. Women grow up with their moms forcing behaviors on them. They dont blame the man down the street for how their mom acted just their mom. Because despite how society impacts us we still make decisions for ourselves. Understanding Societys role may just give us a little more patience in someones flaws. Men kill themselves more often because they keep guns in their homes more often. Its really that simple Why do men die more often than women even when other methods are used? This study has zero firearm suicides and men were still more likely to die https//pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC3539603/ think one of your underlying assumptions here is that responsibility and rights are clearly divided by sex. Firstly I’d argue that men’s issues including those you mention often have more complex causes that involve other factors than masculinity. Therefore it cannot be said that men are totally responsible for all of their problems by virtue of their being men it is also to an extent correlative. Secondly even if we were to accept your initial premise and say that they are totally responsible for these issues as a function of their masculinity it does not follow that they bear sole responsibility for fixing these problems as that would imply that people have rights and responsibilities solely as a function of sex. However I’d argue that no matter the sex all of society has a duty to work towards the prevention of 70% of the suicides in it. To put that burden on men alone because of the vague assertion that it’s their fault” is a bit like saying that since fat people get sick more often they should fund public health services. No. The rest of society takes a theoretical bigger hit for the benefit of the community as a whole. I do think that men have had a significant hand in causing their own problems. It is just so much more complex than that one facet and the rest of society is not blameless either. Even if a problem originated with men many have developed through women too or other demographic designations to the extent that it can no longer be considered to be the same problem. To me it doesn’t seem productive or fair to pin it all on men as a blanket group. It’s kind of giving selfflagellation. In recent history women dont really face the social struggle of reaching out for therapy and other forms of help. Theres also been some research about how therapy more often helps more women than men. The narrative of soyboys wasnt an elected narrative by all or most men. Men feel emasculated by systems and culture already in place. I dont know if guns would make suicide deaths drop to womens rate. Guns are used more in the US but in most parts of the world where guns are uncommon men still outnumber womens suicide deaths by other means. I dont tend to ask for studies but Im gonna need something that says men dont value education. More men dropping out or whatever can be a sign of many things not necessarily that they hated knowledge. You mentioning DEI seems weird youre gripe seems to be with conservative men who didnt like certain vague policies but in no way is this most men. The sex thing is gross but over generalized. Women say disgusting things about men too this is an area that is complex but is fueled by simple rage on all perspectives. And the last line is a little simpy. Most people are in relationships or have been in one. Gender dynamics are in a weird place alongside the Internet age theres MANY reasons why relationships are on the down slope not just men being awful at relationships. If you care about men I dont know how you came to this unfavorable view of them when theres women whove spoken on mens issues with far more nuance and compassion than this. I agree with you that men arent being victimized by some sinister enemy group women feminists etc. But men face plenty of problems that are not brought about by any particular group. For example these days starting in Kindergarten. Boys develop more slowly than girls in areas like executive function skills like paying attention regulating emotions and inhibiting inappropriate behaviors. These issues arise from both genetics on average young boys take a bit longer to develop these executive functioning skills and socialization adults both men and women generally expect boys to be rowdier which in turn leads to rowdier behavior from boys. It doesnt make sense to demand that men solve this problem. After all many of the men who are struggling with this issue are 6 years old. They need help from parents and teachers many of whom are women! The article linked above mentions some proposed solutions for example slightly delaying boys in school so that they have more time to develop and catch up to girls as well as inserting more playtime into the school day so that boys and *all* kids can channel their extra energy more productively. A lot of these behaviors acting tough not asking for help being aggressive could be things evolution built into us. They helped in the past but now they cause problems. It’s not always a choice might be like pollution built into us by evolution and brain chemistry. These traits helped us survive in the past but now they cause problems. It’s not just culture it’s something deeper in how we’re wired. And if you take it one step further evolution comes from physics. If the universe is deterministic quantum physic theory meaning everything happens because of something before it then maybe we didn’t really choose any of this. Maybe we’re just following a script written by biology and the world around us. So are men really to blame… or is it the universe? I know this is just a fun way to look at it a fun rhetorical angle but maybe there’s something worth adding to your view. Is there really any hope for humanity or are we just animals stuck with bad instincts forever? A major problem for many straight men is that they are single and/or lack partnered sexual activity. In typical cases this is due to the free choices of a number of women who chose not to date and/or hook up with those men. And those womens choices are not somehow coereced by men theyre made freely by those women and as such are brought on by the women who make them. Womens free choices are not something men have the responsibility to fix women who choose not to date you are not broken machines. This is a societal issue as such everyone who is part of society can both play a part in helping solve it or perpetuate it. Women are part of society ergo women should do their part in helping to end toxic masculinity Im the furthest thing from a macho man and my mental health is shit. Furthermore therapy in my experience has been completely unable to actually help with this. Im better than I used to be. My argument/experience is that weve been trying to blanket lower the selfesteem/confidence/selfworth of boys and men with the idea that males have too much of it to begin with. The problem is that this isnt all men. Different people are different and when you pull people with already low or even borderline selfesteem even lower thats when you see some serious mental health issues. The LARioters Arent Right in Their Methods I feel like Im going crazy with the amount of people defending the rioters. This CMV isnt about what the LAPD are doing in shooting news reporters or people in the face or how Trump is deploying the national guard or the methods that ICE are using to illegally deport immigrants because those are all wrong. To preface Im saying rioters since I have found examples of peaceful protests online. This is about people online defending the rioters in burning vehicles or trashing police cars. When I see rioters throwing rocks at police cars and destroying them then seeing people blaming the police for getting those cars destroyed. It just doesnt make any sense its like blaming someone for getting shot and trying to inflame a situation because they just so happen to be somewhere. Why dont the rioters just not throw rocks at police cars instead? Or when I see rioters burning selfdriving cars then standing on top of them waving Mexican flags how can that not look bad? How does burning selfdriving cars help anything? What do they have to do with ICE illegally deporting immigrants? Dont tell me this is about them being Mexican or not because if someone waved an Israeli flag while burning down a car Im sure most of Reddit would see them as in the wrong. I really dont see how any of these would help move people to your side I wont discuss further on the Mexican flag part because there was already a CMV but I cant see anyway to justify destroying public and private property as helping your cause. Sure protests have to be disruptive otherwise theyre not going to work. But protest turning into riots doesnt help anything. Id change my view if someone can show me that these are in some way justified. Id also change my view if someone can say that most of the protests are peaceful Because I have seen footage of peaceful protests throughout the city maybe through statistics or something. Or say that any of my rhetoric is wrong. I was confused about why people were destroying Waymo cars but it turns out the company readily hands their video data to the police for enforcement issues and doesnt ask for warrants. I think violence should be the last resort people go to but...it kind of looks like were just about there anyway. Why does the methodology matter so much if the end result is the same for people online to complain that theyre not doing it right? How does one get a crowd of decentralized protesters aligned on approved methods of actions when the cops will still use violence to maintain those goals? How are you going to nonviolently stop armed government agents from extrajudicially kidnapping suspected illegal immigrants with peaceful methods only? People are defending themselves from police being the agitators. Same can be said about Martin Luther King and the civil rights protest. A majority White people disliked his movement back in the 60s. If we listened and catered to white people people of color would never have rights. These protests always start off peacefully until the police get involved and use force against the people. Protest are supposed to make people uncomfortable for change. I’m sorry to burst your bubble. Peaceful protest have never changed anything in this country. Do you feel the same when white people were protesting the tea tax during the Boston tea party in 1773 and they were destroying property? Or do you just care when it’s people color? Why are you worried about property more than you are about the US empire not following the constitution and not allowing you to practice your rights? Theyre renditioning people out of schools churches and immigration hearings and shipping them off to random countries that they didnt come from. The government is trying to suspend habeas corpus to expedite the process so there is zero chance of challenging them in court. I guess the question is what is the right way to protest if they come for your friends and neighbors? Write them a sternlyworded letter like Chuck Schumer? \ Id change my view if someone can show me that these are in some way justified. ICE has been arresting and deporting people without due process including U.S. Citizens children ill &amp elderly and people right after theyve finished their court hearings a.k.a. doing it the right way. This is a direct violation of the 14th Amendment emphasis mine *nor shall any State deprive* ***any person*** *of life liberty or property without due process of law* Read your history. This behavior from our government isnt going to subside its going to get worse. The correct response to tyranny is **violent** resistance. These arent riots theyre a nessecary response to facsism. The LAPD is lucky that its just cars right now. Peaceful protests against government overreach and government snatching people off the streets and leaving children abandoned when their parents are abducted Police show up in riot gear and start shooting and gassing the crowds Protestors respond Who do you think is in the wrong here? We see an abundance of photos of destruction because photos of people protesting peacefully isnt excited to portray in the media. The protest went on for hours and the number that some media outlets are claiming is only 60 arrests. That is nothing when there were thousands of people in the streets yesterday. Destruction is an inevitable occurrence in any protest celebration mob situation. Look at when a team wins the Superbowl and what happens in the winning teams city. I remember when Obama was elected there were some fires in Seattle and it was people celebrating the win. It is mob mentality when some people lose sight on the line between what is okay and not okay because someone tries to one up someone else resulting in a snowball effect that causes destruction. It isnt okay but its natural and will always happen in any large protest. Also though if some police officer shot my friend in the head with a rubber bullet and then refused to call an ambulance like what happened yesterday Id be the one looking for a match. You cant fight pure violence with peace. Sure protests have to be disruptive otherwise theyre not going to work. But protest turning into riots doesnt help anything. The problem is that in practice if a protest really is disruptive in a meaningful way well then society is disrupted and people who just kind of want to destroy stuff are naturally going to seize upon that disruption in society to just break stuff. Why? Because theyre angry and why not. The people who have no motivation to act antisocially have no real power to prevent this from happening although sometimes they do try and obviously the police wont stop it firstly because theyre busy cracking skulls and secondly because it benefits them by creating the exact impression you are expressing So your view basically amounts to why dont criminals just never do crimes even when the police have no hope of catching them? Why doesnt everyone in society behave morally and ethically all the time even when there will be no consequences to their actions Police should go home to their families. Wouldnt be rIoTs. Feds need to lead the way home. The federal government took the gloves off when they started raiding communities unlawfully detaining and deporting people even US citizens while blatantly fabricating evidence and openly stating that they will refuse due process. Therefore the citizens have a constitutional right to defend their communities against federal government overreach. This is also the goal defending community not getting anyone on their side. The sides have been made clear a long time ago there are no undecided people left and anyone who wishes to be repelled by bad optics in the face of fascist attacks on minorities can very well choose to step onto the wrong side of history no one is going to stop them. They will have to deal with the consequences however. I would like to say if you arent getting genuine on the ground reporting of what is happening then you are probably going to just see the worst of any protest event. Are you only reading from big and biased media sources? If so you might want to expand your horizon. Another thing to think about is how many people take protests as an opportunity to destroy things. As well as police often inciting violence rather than mitigating hostile attitudes protestors come into a protest having. Its possible the protesters were behaving much better until government intervention. Riots happen in dire circumstances when peaceful protests are no longer effective. One of your arguments is that riots don’t do anything to ‘help get people on your side’. But they do. Even if it’s not the ‘goal’ they’re very much effective in the way they generate mass media coverage and get more people to understand the depth of what people are protesting against. Sometimes people truly don’t understand the weight of issues until they see how people are reacting to it. The mass media coverage generates a lot of controversy but in those moments of controversy people are forced to reckon with where they stand. While it might ‘turn people against the cause’ it also brings mass amounts of attention to the cause. Even if you take examples in recent history the riots after George Floyd’s death were hugely effective in the way they generated mass media coverage. Without riots I don’t think we would’ve had the mass wave of protests and social movement that followed for months after. I think subconsciously people know that everyday people don’t react like that unless they are truly angry suffering or left with no other option. It wakes people up to suffering. Or at the very least forces them to look into *why* they’re reacting like that. I think even this post is an example of that. Militarized authority attacks the population the population responds accordingly. I cant believe people would behave this way. Wake up dude. The idea that the point of this protest is to sway people from the opposing side is wrong and thus all the claims built on it are irrelevant. Why should citizens behave lawfully if our own government refuses to do the same? Just addressing one aspect here. The destruction of police vehicles. Since the police changed their original position that they would not aid federal actions now they are part of the group that needs to be stopped. And one of the best ways to stop or at least slow them down is to remove their main form of transportation. If they cant get to the ICE agents they cant help them. These are government vehicles which means citizens paid for them through their tax dollars. They are not personal vehicles of the officers. Destroying this public property has a distinct purpose. That isnt a riot and it doesnt make people destroying cop cars rioters. There is also a double standard here about requiring protestors to be peaceful while cops are blasting them with rubber bullets indiscriminately. It is basically saying people have to take whatever the cops give. Have you seen the video of the officer directly targeting an Australian reporter and hitting her with a rubber bullet? Police are absolutely escalating and engaging in violence. We had this same conversations with the BLM protests minus the foreign flags debate. I learned during this time that there is no right way to protest unjust violence. Asking people to protest in a more palatable way is a form of silencing them because youre asking them to make their protest easier for the people in power to ignore and dismiss. No it doesnt look pretty its not supposed to. People are rightfully angry and thats the message theyre sending. When police are showing up in riot gear and the president is so rattled hes sending in the National Gaurd and people are willingly risking their safety to stand in front of armed law enforcement thats kind of the point. I will agree that the use of foreign flags is framing this to look like foreign entities are doing the protesting instead of angry americans which may be harmful to the cause. [removed] There is no right” way to protest. It is common for governments to commit horrific acts against people. American law enforcement has a long history of doing that. Resistance against that is necessary. In the case of these current events in LA virtually all of the escalation has come from the side of the government and their behaviors. What you call rioting” is simply rising up to be closer to the level of aggression and violence that LAPD and ICE have been using. As much as I prefer deescalation that possibility no longer exists as soon as these militarized law enforcement agencies choose to attack people assembling. Because by definition they escalated things. Can you give an example of social change which occurred without violence? Every effective protest is going to include violence. Non violent” protests are still violent it’s just only on the victims. Look at the images of dogs being set on protestors during the civil rights act. That being said this is not that situation the government is illegally sending people to foreign concentration camps these people violently resisting are heroes. It’s the people actually standing up to nazi germany while it’s happening rather than 50 years later claiming they would’ve never let the holocaust happen. Obama deported 5.3 million illegals” in 740 days. I want to know how it was possible to give every single one of them due process. News flash it wasn’t. They were sent back by the dozen in buses. The news snuffed it all. Anyone who is pro illegals and pro riots should be ashamed of themselves ashamed to be called American. You attack officers with bricks but then cry wolf when you are shot with rubber bullets. Put every single rioter in jail. It doesnt matter. We remember MLK for his nonviolent protests but that isnt how they were perceived at the time. https//blogger.googleusercontent.com/img/b/R29vZ2xl/AVvXsEh_X7nM2eNSeIijSIjx7clLkZk5dBRl_zd4KICrwy2ZuTUPNF805PsncGtx26FNZA5fJqtNEzx5Dg1Dl78k3gae2lWt1fjRIM24aFvVbZe6FVbTsOP8KO1adMLQa0HrhxK8Qj/s320/4a08bf2ea31f2e1704f5012314b18004f5ff1c88d017.jpg The conservative media will do whatever they can to vilify the protest. I’m amazed the protesters don’t pursue legal means to challenge and try to change current laws. It isn’t easy it is purposely hard but long term way more effective than burning cars. The violence gets Trump votes. Every burning cars is a massive opportunity for Trump why don’t they see it? I watched Portland riots and how did that all turn out? I think it played into getting Trump elected again. Amazingly. Decades of not looking bad led us to this moment. If not looking bad still leads to ICE arresting people at immigration hearings while wearing face coverings and plainclothes Im not sure what the point of not looking bad is. What would you recommend? The contract we have as a society is being completely broken. Sorry if this makes you uncomfortable. When they come for you what would you like your neighbors to do to protest? It’s pride month so I’ll bring up that the modern LGBT+ movement was born out of queer people throwing bricks at cops at Stonewall. Ahhhh yes… the peaceful protest… first covid riots then Tesla riots now this… this is peace huh? Respectability Politics mostly doesnt work because the online right way to protect is to be quiet and in the background .if the government wants you for your protest to be riotors you will be riotors it mostly not in the control of the people protesting trump was looking for an excuse to punish LA for not backing him and show power to the base. The situation was going to happen at some point this year. [ Removed by Reddit ] One of the reasons women don’t care about body count” and get annoyed when men bring it up is because they don’t have a concept of such term they don’t need to pursue it they have easy access to it with a few clicks on their phone. With dating apps and hookup culture the average woman has easier access to sexual partners. They can choose men they want to spend the night with with just a few clicks which can lead to a more casual approach to sex and a reduced focus on a partners sexual history. So this ease of access can also translate to a sense of agency where a woman can feel more in control of their sexual encounters and by extension less concerned about their partners past experiences. Now for the average man? Let’s use biology 101. Women pursue hypergamy. This means they are generally more selective and tend to prefer men who rank higher in terms of status attractiveness confidence or resources what some call the top percentile.” So the average man by contrast doesn’t benefit from this dynamic. He has to work harder to gain attention let alone romantic or sexual access. Thus if the average man has to work 100x harder for it of course they’ll will value it more because they’re using their resources commitment time energy etc… Do you got evidence the number of average sexual partners is significantly different? Last stat I saw men were at 4 women were at 6 the average woman has easier access to sexual partners *Maybe* but that doesnt mean they use that access women don’t care about body count” Women *do* care This finding suggests the presence of a reverse sexual double standard where **men are judged more harshly than women for the same sexual behaviors**. Participants showed higher behavioral intentions toward female targets indicating a bias in favor of women when it comes to evaluating sexual history. I was expecting women to be judged harsher for higher numbers of sexual partners but that wasn’t what we found **men were judged harsher**” Busch said. No the annoyance is because the conversation is steeped in blatant double standards. A woman who’s had multiple partners is often labeled as damaged goods” used” or unworthy” of commitment while a man with the same or higher number is called a stud” or player.” This blatant hypocrisy where male sexuality is celebrated and female sexuality is punished is what many women find irritating or degrading. It’s not about women being casual about sex due to ease of access.” It’s about being judged unfairly for the same behavior that men are often praised for. If body count were truly a neutral standard it would apply equally but it rarely does. 1 Men dont like to talk about body count as their past achievements but rather as a way to devalue women for their past sexual partners. 2 Drop the biology 101 bullshit. Man also try to go for woman who are attractive confident and funny. 3 If you want real connection with someone then you need to start looking at them as a human being and not as an award an achievement something to conquer etc etc. People who think like that are destined to end up alone and either become Incels or Tate subscribers. I think its a lot less pretentious to talk about preferences of a group if you actually you know talk with that group and get their opinions on it rather than arrogantly assume this is one of their reasons for not caring about body count. Heres something to start with the reason I dont care about body count is because the whole concept reduces people down to bodies to fuck which I find abhorrent. So Im not going to ask about that because it isnt even within my considerations due to it being such a dehumanizing concept to begin with. Lets see what other women say. There is always this backhanded moral implication to these redpill evopsych talking points that women are unfairly and greedily applying high standards when looking for a partner and as a result it is creating a situation where average men cant compete and are unfairly alienated. In reality the reason why women have higher standards is because they are more interested in sex in the context of a healthy committed relationship than men are and selecting for relationship compatibility is going to be much more narrow than selecting for sexual compatibility. If men were also selecting for relationship compatibility they would also be ignoring body counts as a factor. They would probably also be trying harder to demonstrate the things that are important to relationship compatibility such as being financially stable being kind and personable being emotionally available and responsive etc. Also you can try to reduce these differences to a matter of evolutionary biology but ultimately it doesnt matter whether its biological or cultural or anything else. We have to live our lives as though we are autonomous human beings not animals or cavemen. We have to treat our preferences in sexual relationships as consciously rational. Let’s use biology 101. Women pursue hypergamy. Im gonna to need a source on that one bud this means they are generally more selective Or... they also risk getting pregnant? What do you mean when you say that women dont have any concept of such term? I think that most adults are aware of the idea that some people have more partners than others. Dont you? I expect that you are probably not referring to the simple fact that some people have more partners than others. You are probably referring to the bundle of associations sometimes tied to a persons number of sexual partners and based on the rest of your post you are referring to purported negative associations for women and positive associations for men. You say \[t\]hey can choose men they want to spend the night with with just a few clicks which can lead to a more casual approach to sex and a reduced focus on a partners sexual history. How would this lead to a reduced focus on a partners sexual history? And why do you assume that this is something that women want to do much less actually in practice do? Whats the appeal in having sex with some random man? Its a safety risk. It presents a risk of pregnancies and STIs. Theres no guarantee itll be fun or satisfying. Lots of women dont want to have sex with strangers at all no matter how hot. It just doesnt appeal. Are you considering at all that the group of men who might be up for a random bang with a stranger might not be very appealing? You envision women swiping through a seemingly endless buffet of desirable options wishing you could do the same and bemoaning how much harder it is for you to achieve what you think all women can have many great or at least decent options. But to us its not an endless buffet of great or even decent options and its not due to hypergamy either. Its a buffet of options that includes men who might hurt us abuse us rape us degrade us impregnate us give us an STI and arent likely to make us have an orgasm and were probably not attracted to them in the first place. No one wants that. Were annoyed when men bring it up because the it is almost always used in service of making sexist generalizations and judgments about women is based on dubious facts and is typically brought up by men who are very very attached to the asinine notion of hypergamy and these men typically demonstrate a fundamental lack of interest in womens viewpoints. The reason women typically dont care about a mans body count is because socially there isnt a stigma against a mans body count. Men only really care because of social stigma as well. I would argue that a woman SHOULD care though because if hell run through those women then hell run through you. regardless of that dynamic being in place there is still an unfair standard applied to women. Is it shameful to enjoy casual sex? It should be shameful or not regardless of how easy it is to obtain Your view is not coherent. Suppose women indeed can just get laid whenever they want to. This isnt actually true but suppose it was. How does this translate to not having a concept of body count? Is your argument that they lose track of the number? Suppose men value sexual attention more because they have to work harder for it. How does that translate to caring about *womens* body count? Im not trying to nitpick here I actually have no idea what logical train of thought you are following here. Another reason women get annoyed when body count is brought up is that it’s objectifying. Just get with people you like for god’s sake and when you don’t like each other anymore no need to go on about it because surely you aren’t trying to pull just so you can tell everyone about it so why do they need to know. If you are that is weird and insecure. Has a woman ever told you that this is a reason? Some women do care. In fact some studies suggest that women . Also I don’t see why the difficulty of getting a partner should affect the attractiveness of promiscuity. Some guys have an easy time getting laid too. Women dont care as much because people arent practicing safe sex people arent vetting their sexual partners and men cant get pregnant. But if you told a girl youve fucked 10 women in the last month without a condom shed probably not want to risk it. get annoyed when men bring it up is because.... Eh youre thinking too hard. Men are asking them to be accountable and women lack accountability. Can you clarify are you sharing this view as a woman or as a man? Women and Men play different roles in the game of mating. It is asymmetric. Women have easier to get the interest of a man but harder to get his commitment. Men have easier to get the commitment of a women but harder to get her interest. consequently the significance of a high body count is different. For men their high body count denotes success. Because their hurdle is in getting in. For women failure because she couldnt keep the guy she let in. Allowing immigrants to enter a country doesnt violate property rights but restricting immigration does. Author DrPlatypus1Post Text Opponents of immigration often use the talking point that if youre fine with immigrants entering your country then you should be fine with them staying at your house. This seriously misunderstands how property rights work. If I am standing in your yard and you tell me to leave then I would be violating your property rights if I didnt. If Im standing in your neighbors yard and you tell me to leave then I am not violating your property rights. If your neighbor wants me to be there and you try to force me to leave then you are violating your neighbors rights to freely associate with people of their own choosing on their own property. Since you dont own the whole neighborhood you have no right to set conditions on who your neighbors can invite over. When immigrants enter the country they are able to live here because there are people in this country who want them here. They find a place to live because people want to rent to them sell to them or have them stay with them. They find places to work because someone wants to hire them. They find places to shop because people want to sell things to them. And they find homes to visit because people want to be able to enjoy their company. Restricting immigration violates the rights of citizens to freely associate with these people. Since no one owns the whole country including the government at least in the United States no one has the right to restrict which people citizens are allowed to associate with on their own property. This is true even if some people in the area dont like those people being around. Property rights have never included the right to override all government policy/laws. Morally criminals and unauthorized immigrants are not the same but your logic of if I want someone on my property my property rights overrides the laws of country implies that if any property owner in the country should be able to compel the release of any criminal from prison that they are willing to have on their property. Any homeowner is basically immune from laws. Any criminal organization just needs to legitimately buy a hotel and then house all its members there. The people of a country collectively own that country. This gives the people the right to set public policy including immigration policies. Because of this only allowing people to immigrate according to the will of the people does not violate private property rights. While immigration restrictions are a restriction on the freedom of association that freedom is not inalienable and there can be legitimate restrictions on that freedom if it benefits the broader public. This seriously misunderstands how property rights work. The argument is an analogy. right or wrong the point it is making is that just like you want to keep your house and property secure from unauthorized entry so too we should keep our country secure from unauthorized entry. Just like you have the right to deny entry to your house so too our democratically elected government may deny the right to enter our country. When immigrants enter the country they are able to live here because there are people in this country who want them here. I think that a fair argument to make. of course you are not free to do as your please on your own property. there are all sorts of restrictions. Often restrictions on fire mining heavy industry running a business. restrictions on the type of buildings you can build how many people can live in those building and much much more. You cannot harbor criminals on your property even if you disagree with the law that makes them a criminal. Besides that to get to your property an immigrant would have to cross over land that is not your property. The governments actions dont take place on your property they take place at the border. There are laws about cross the broader and you cant harbor criminals on your property. If there is any violation of property rights at all it is dwarfed by the other violations the government does routinely. so if me and my buddy go to your house i am not violating your property rights because my buddy wants me to be there correct? \ Restricting immigration violates the rights of citizens to freely associate with these people I think this is too broad. If someone is a know terrorist for example is it okay restrict their immigration? If Ukraine restricted the immigration of fighting age Russian men would that be violating rights? It is impairing free association. \ Since no one owns the whole country including the government at least in the United States no one has the right to restrict which people citizens are allowed to associate with on their own property. Well it depends. the government can certainly restrict which people I associate with on my property. If not then I could harbor wanted criminals and as long as they stay at my house they can just hang out. Its possible to define property rights in such a way that this is true but what are we supposed to conclude from this? Is it supposed to cause people to reflect and think wow I guess I really do support open borders? Its much more likely that people would simply conclude ...and thats why I support some restrictions on property rights. Obviously the fact that we have all sorts of restrictions is a compelling reason to think this. Suppose for example that you said CMV preventing racial discrimination in the private sector violates property rights. You could easily argue that. But its not going to actually change anyones position. At best it forces a preemptive clarification. But at some point other’s freedom of association infringes on my property rights. If I live in a neighborhood you’re right that I largely have no say over who my neighbors allow to visit. But what happens when one neighbor has family come visit who are the stereotypical white trash? They start coming over constantly blare loud music shoot off guns ride loud vehicles around the neighborhood drink heavily and fill up your neighbors yard with broken down vehicles. Even worse they’re having their white trash friends come by and those problems are only exacerbated. Meanwhile the property value of my house and my other neighbors’ houses are plummeting. Quality of life has equally plummeted. The presence of those people has adversely affected me and the rest of my neighbors. So it’s just a fuck you to me and me neighbors even if we all want them out? There’s nothing we can do? That’s really your argument? House House owner is decision maker declares someone is trespassing property law is broken. Country govt is decision maker govt declares someone is trespassing immigration law is broken. Property law deals with the equivalent example... you have to translate it back to its correspondent counterpart when returning to the original situation... which is immigration law. Since you dont own the whole neighborhood you have no right to set conditions on who your neighbors can invite over. But in the name of national defense the state/federal government is allowed to essentially act as if they own the whole neighborhood. No one is saying you cant visit and freely associate as part of a visit but if you want to stay here there are laws that need respecting. And these laws came from representatives voted for by the public. Your example isnt that on point because your just standing in their lawn your not building a permanent residence there. They find a place to live because people want to rent to them sell to them or have them stay with them. They find places to work because someone wants to hire them. And alot of this ends up being illegal under the table and again we have laws about this laws the people have voted for. Since no one owns the whole country including the government at least in the United States no one has the right to restrict which people citizens are allowed to associate with on their own property. Sure they do its called laws and they come directly from the people. There is a huge difference between right to associate by inviting someone onto your property and giving them permanent residence and the law properly reflects those differences in how you are allowed to do either. You still need a passport to enter the country even for a visit legally so having legal means to ensure your allowed to stay permanently is perfectly fine its what the people wanted and voted for. no one has the right to restrict which people citizens are allowed to associate with on their own property. I feel like this statement falls apart if you think about it too much. For example If I live next to a school can I invite a pedophile over? Or is he restricted from entering my private property because its too close to a school? Because currently thats illegal because theres some people in the area that dont like those people around. Or what if one of my neighbors has a restraining order against one of my friends cuz they beat them up? Does that neighbor just have to suck it up if I freely associate with their assailant on my property? Right to association and property rights are distinct concepts you’re confusing the two. Landlords and companies can do their business with anyone in the world generally. It violates property rights if it is illegal. When immigrants enter the country they are able to live here because there are people in this country who want them here. what if ppl want them in this country for illegal purposes? does that still make it ok? no one has the right to restrict which people citizens are allowed to associate with on their own property. what if the ppl you are talking about are breaking the law? If no one owns the country who is in charge of making decisions about country? By the way there are tons of rules of what homeowner can and cannot do on their property. Homeowners do have limits of whom they can invite in their home and whom they can’t have in their home. Those limitations are set by citizens through legislation process. Some random old creep can’t invite an underage girl to live with them? Why? Because we people decide that he can’t unless certain procedures were followed for example an adoption Similarly homeowner can’t prevent a firemen from coming into his house in times of emergency? Why? Because we people set up rules for various citations and circumstances. Immigration rules were decided similarly and should be followed similarly to whatever else rules and regulations were set up. We can also modify and change rules. And EQUALLY IMPORTANT when you go to another country you have to be aware that there are rules that were set up by locals about what you can and what you can’t do based on your visa/legal status. I agree with you in principle but the viewpoint of antiimmigration people is that theres a process and they are violating the law. Civil or criminal doesnt matter. The gritty details dont matter. They matter to you. They matter to me. But those details dont matter to the people you are trying to convince. Rules lawyering only works with those arguing in good faith. Appeal to empathy doesnt work. Maga people dont lack empathy. Its just their empathy is heavily reserved to those they believe in their in group. The argument however flawed is that it is a privilege to be an American even though its 99% accident of birth hyperbole I dont know the actual legal immigration numbers and ratio off the top of my head and by violating that privilege by coming illegally or even legally but not the way they like ie asylum=open boarder to them and they should leave if they dont love America even though they hate 60% of Americans Ok to the actual point of cmv Lets say.. people who overstay a visa. 50%+ of illegal immigrants last time I checked. They are like the guest who overstay their welcome in your house. Because to these Americans they view the entire United States as their house. You cant reason with a faithbased argument like this. They have a strong belief in what America is. We all do based on how we are programmed from birth till about 25 when our brain fully develops. I know technically its still develops after but the core of who you believe you are and about the world is made during this time then adjusts with experience. Those who cross the border or arrive through any means without documentation are essential squatters to them. Doesnt matter if the squatter redoes your kitchen squatter is a squatter. I disagree with all this because all of Americas inequality are collective choices we have made with heavy influence by our culture which is then heavily influenced by mega wealthy assholes who buy political power. Inventing issues to divide the poor Literally anyone not in the 1% club is as old a tradition since we started farming 10000 years ago. Immigrants or illegal aliens? Which one do you mean? Social media is one of the worst scourges of the 21st century Not trying to compare with disease poverty and war as each are awful as well. I just had this talk with a mate. We both agreed that Rising youth suicide rates have been linked to the explosion of social media use. Radicalization and mob behavior have been fueled by online echo chambers. Disinformation has undermined public health elections and even fueled realworld violence. Cyberbullying has led to tragic outcomes. Amplified anxiety depression and loneliness especially among teens. Distorted selfimage through curated lifestyles and filters. Shortened attention spans and eroded the ability to focus deeply. Polarized society making echo chambers and online outrage the norm. Eroded reallife connection replacing it with performative interaction. It’s also monetized outrage vanity and addiction—rewarding the worst impulses for profit. Some argue it’s like letting an unregulated psychological experiment loose on billions of people. Do you think the damage can be undone or are we too far gone? What makes you think its social media not just traditional media? It’s not social media that’s the problem as with everything it’s unregulated social media that’s the issue there should be a maturity level that’s allowed to have social media it should only be available to anyone who has a history of displaying appropriate self control that alone removes most women and children/teenagers from social media I think your first line is actually a complete refutation of your point. For people in developed safe and generally wealthy western nations like the US or Germany or whatever social media has had a lot of harmful effects and could be called a scourge. But compared to for example the hundreds of thousands of people killed or maimed in Ukraine or starving to death in Gaza or dying of malaria or working through grinding poverty social media just doesnt compare. To be clear I agree that social media can be very bad and has a real negative effect on mental health productivity happiness etc. But is it one of the worst scourges of the 21st century? Uh no. Weve still got many of the good old traditional scourges that are so much worse. You just might not feel that because those other scourges are not affecting you personally. Which is not a *failing* on your part. Its not *bad* for you to not be affected by those scourges in fact its great. I just wanted to add this because Ive always hated the implication that it is wrong to not suffer from things that other less fortunate people are suffering from. Im just saying that its hard to keep these things in perspective and the hardships caused by social media pale in comparison to the absolute human misery attendant to war famine disease poverty etc. [removed] [removed] I would say its some mixture of Western culture and social media thats really accelerating all of this. Take The Philippines for example fun fact they use social media more than any other country on the planet. Where is the radicalization mob behavior depression/loneliness rates increased echo chambers/online outrage etc in that part of the world? Is it really social media inherently or how western culture is using it? I agree. Reddit is terrible.... Joking. In all seriousness social media itself is a tool of communication which has allowed human short comings to compound. Meaning I think a lot of the issues you mention would be resolved by humans being better. Additionally social media has allowed people to learn and connect with new people and information in meaningful ways. For example I am active on a Reddit for formerly religious Jews. I have had great conversations and met friends through there that I wouldnt have been able to do previously. Access to information has allowed those with little education or outside perspectives to see beyond their small worlds. Conversely kids are being introduced to harmful content so too much access can be a bad thing. Its a mixed bag but I am inclined to agree with you. Take the good with the bad I suppose. You could say cars are also terrible because of how many motor accidents they cause and how bad they are for the environment and any other number of issues. However social media is also pretty good where most of these issues have existed long before social media with disinformation of public health mob behavior echo chambers poor self image etc. Many of these things are just very typical to human nature where social media didn’t create these issues out of nowhere. In many ways social media also provides more varied perspectives you would never see without social media. Also rising youth suicide rate being connected with social media use is one of various factors. I would say all these issues are yes connected to social media but also connected to plenty of other factors. That’s like saying franz Ferdinand death was the only reason why wwi and wwii occured. [removed] [removed] It isnt social media its the people using it social media cant cause these issues its only a tool what causes those things is a tool being used irresponsibly There’s a lack of standards in general when it comes to acceptable behavior in society I don’t think social media is the cause but it’s certainly there Social media is a tool it’s neither good nor bad. I’m not a fan but the effects of its usage is dependent on the cultures and societies that integrate it. Its utilization is dictated by the environment and its peoples. Right now social media is entirely controlled by billionaires and I contend that wealth is the real issue that wealth is a public health crisis that fucks people’s brains and enables hoarders drug addicts and criminals to exacerbate societal ills on a massive scale when left unregulated. These mentally sick people have utilized social media to spread disinformation inject conspiracist thinking into the mainstream erode trust in our public institutions and pacify the masses through intentionally addictive propaganda platforms. People don’t seem to understand that they should be seeing gains from their time spent on social media. That they should be suspicious of any free” product and ask themselves what is actually being exchanged in the interaction. People are making endless money off of our most precious resource—time. People are turning themselves into ads and engaging in free labor every single time they open Instagram tik tok Facebook Reddit etc. Social media isn’t the problem. The problem is the people that monopolize what could be an incredible and unifying communication system that connects and empowers people from all walks of life across time and space and instead they use it to turn their countrymen into addicts and mobs divide and incite the proletariat to culture wars and pump propaganda into every hand held device in the nation. *to answer your question no we’re not too far gone. You regulate it and invest in making it a robust communication tool that’s controlled by the people/their representatives. Without this social media platform how would you ever know what a wide range of people think about this subject? So your position basically boils down to sure it sucks to bleed out in a trench fighting a war you got conscripted into but at least youre not actively choosing to watch videos online [removed] Yellowstone is just bonanaza if the Cartwrights were evil Yellowstone is a slightly changed version of bonanaza. Both have hundreds of thousands of acres of land the mother is dead in both shows both shows are constantly fighting people who want to take over the land the patriarch in both shows ran for office of thier town the patriarch in both shows have an odd authority over even the law enforcement in both shows both shows take in strays ect. The real big differences are the state it takes place the family makeup and the Cartwrights are honest and honorable unlike the duttons. i mean if we discount all the parts where they are different we get that the remainding parts are the same. whats the view you want changed here? Im not very familiar with Bonanza but arent big differences thematically from Yellowstone? Like if I show you this theme summary for one of the shows it doesnt fit both shows does it? Episodes ranged from high drama to broad comedy and addressed issues such as the environment substance abuse domestic violence antiwar sentiment and illegitimate births. The series sought to illustrate the cruelty of bigotry against Asians African Americans Native Americans Jews Mormons the disabled and little people. I think it’s just Dallas with more outdoorsy stuff. [removed] Reddit Should Require Photo ID to Make An Account Dead internet theory is becoming more and more real by the day. Posts in small subreddits are getting hundreds of thousands of upvotes and people are using the protection of anonymity to post content which is at best extremely concerning and at worst illegal. If every Reddit account was tied to a photo id it would solve or at least help mitigate the following 1. Underaged users in nsfw subs. 2. The huge infestation of bots and scammers. 3. The promotion of basic civility since youd know if you post illegal/defamatory/etc content you could easily be found. In conclusion Reddit was originally supposed to be the town square of the internet and my idea would help ensure that were all people talking to people. EDIT People have made good points about privacy and revenue loss. What about instead of mandating it photo id was added as an optional feature to be Verified. And posts made by Verified accounts would be promoted by the content algorithm? That would mean that every government across the planet would have to give reddit access to their databases to check if the ID were valid or not. If that isnt the case then people could just upload a fake ID image. Do you think every government is likely to do this? Reddit was originally supposed to be the town square of the internet In an actual town square you dont have to identify yourself before spouting off. [deleted] thats a massive privacy issue. there have been so many data breaches lately i think 90% of reddit users especially here where many of us are in tech would just stop using the site. besides AI and/or photoshop can fake an ID in a matter of minutes so this would ultimately just create an extra step for bot account creation. once the check is verified users could sell accounts to third parties or set up a bot on their account and wed be right back where we started. A huge portion of users use this site because there is some form on anomality. The change would probably help the site but you would lose a ton of its audience that dont come here for that. So in the event that Reddit gets a data breach all of your comment history is now available for the public. 1. The promotion of basic civility since youd know if you post illegal/defamatory/etc content you could easily be found. If something Illegal is posted and the Government wanted to find you based on your Reddit info I am certain that they already can. It fundamentally should not be the responsibility of a platform to enforce its own TOS. Anyone using the site against its TOS is doing so without consent. And how will you verify that photo id? Against what database? Really doesnt work for a global social media app. Internet ID is the next step of the technocratic restructuring of the control grid. This is exactly what musk and thiel are working towards. Every transaction you make will be tied to your personal identity. This is the end of privacy and everything you do can be monitored nudged and monetized via a social credit system. This would be a *massive* boon to autocracies looking to stamp out dissent. For example China would love nothing more than to know the identity of every single person who has ever criticized it online. Underaged users in nsfw subs. Underage users can just access nsfw content on other websites. The huge infestation of bots and scammers. Bots and scammers are really just not a big deal. Wellmoderated subreddits do not have many issues with them. The promotion of basic civility since youd know if you post illegal/defamatory/etc content you could easily be found. The entire point of Reddit is that its anonymous. If you want Reddit to be more like Facebook then just use Facebook. In conclusion Reddit was originally supposed to be the town square of the internet and my idea would help ensure that were all people talking to people. What would actually happen is that there would be huge protests on Reddit over the changes causing many users to leave for more privacy friendly sites like 4chan and Twitter. You would also add friction to joining Reddit which would also push people towards other websites. TLDR This change would fix a couple minor problems while creating much bigger problems. It would be an overwhelming net negative for the site. Even though the idea sounds good at first it has massive and even dangerous downsides regarding privacy and who has access to and owns the data EDIT People have made good points about privacy and revenue loss. What about instead of mandating it photo id was added as an optional feature to be Verified. And posts made by Verified accounts would be promoted by the content algorithm? It sounds as though somebody or some people changed your view so you should probably award at least one delta. As for the whole verified thing Im not sure how it would solve any of the three problems you mentioned. Theres lots of holes in this idea and the arguments are the same for reddit as they are the rest of the internet. Consider the following * Why would photo ID be the thing that guarantees everyone is a real person? * Do you trust the people at reddit today to use your personally identifiable information responsibly? * What about the people at reddit tomorrow? A year from now? Five? * What about the people that those from reddit answer to? Their shareholders? Their government? Do you trust them to use your data responsibly? * And the most important question to ask is photo ID actually the best solution to this problem? We should take the least risky solution here and if that doesnt exist... Should reddit? The one good thing about Trump 2.0 is all my lefty friends no longer call me a cryptofascist because I believe online anonymity is vital for a healthy public discourse. Cringe but correct quote give a man a mask and he will tell you the truth. You really dont want all your ideological opponents to have a dossier on Janet 3 kids works at Smith&ampSmith Dentistry lives at 306 Mullholand drive likely communist because of reddit comments. Jogs in the afternoon at Mountain top park doesnt own guns. Id rather have people type nono wrongthink words online then giving them the ammo to actually carry out their deranged fantasies. Yeah I wouldn’t be on here. I’m sure they prefer traffic. Restricting access to social media websites tends to be a death sentence for them. The site is free which means all the revenue is from ads. The only way to get ad revenue is to have as many click as possible. This doesn’t work when you start gatekeeping the site and people aren’t going to want a copy of their ID stored on some massive site database that’s liable to get hacked or sold off to owners that will sell your data. One of the best things about Reddit is the anonymity. It allows for more open and honest communication. It does allow for people to lie and spread misinformation but they could do that with photo ID verification too as we see with other platforms. It does allow kids to see NSFW content but kids will be kids and there are many places to find such material. I would not use any site that requires that tbh Why should *reddit* do this? If theres demand for nonanonymized social media a new site can be made that does this and pitches it as its value proposition. Reddit being anonymous incurs the risks you describe thats on you the user to factor in to what you take away from this site. What about instead of mandating it photo id was added as an optional feature to be Verified. And posts made by Verified accounts would be promoted by the content algorithm? Do you think the user experience for nonverified users would still be as good if they did that? Are you comfortable with all of the info on your ID being stored in their database? Id rather not and it would also mean anyone who doesnt have a photo ID for whatever reason can no longer use the site which would seem to limit said town square. It will do absolutely nothing for #3 unless you want to tie social media posts to real life consequences. I dont think the China model is the best for its citizens maybe you can explain why you think its. [removed] I dont want to open my account up to being hacked and doxxed so i can post memes for video games with other people who play the games. What happens when Reddit gets hacked and everyone gets a bunch of pictures of Photo IDs? Yeah lets give the government even more data that will work and absolutely not backfire /s I hate dead internet theory so much.The majority of the bots that make up those on the internet are ones that dont interact with people. I dont care if Im talking to a real person or not if I cannot tell I simply do not care. Were here to fulfil a social need. That isnt reversed if I found out the guy I was talking to was a LLM. There are plenty of examples of nonanonymous people demonstrating a complete lack of basic civility in real life. Just look at the US Republican Party. There is just no evidence to suggest that unmasking folks would cause online users to behave better. The nostalgia factor of ChiChis makes it a worthwhile investment. I dont know Im not advertising this but Im seriously considering putting some money down for the comeback of ChiChis. This is the restaurant that made Mexican Friend Ice Cream popular. I remember going there with my parents as a kid and getting some chimichangas. I used to love the place and wonder if the GenX memories are going to be able to make it a thing again. Theres probably some good reasons why not to do this startup investment thing like the fact that most restaurants fail within a year. It also seems weird to have a startup engine asking for crowdfunding when you have some top executives wanting to lead the project why cant they get their own capital? Still though theres the temptation to buy in early. Its probably a gamble but I really want to see this thing come back for some reason. You are unlikely to ever see anything from your investment. As you say running a restaurant is difficult and timeconsuming and profit margins are often meagre. This is why the restaurant industry has such a comparatively high turnaround rate. A place that has already proven to be unprofitable is unlikely to get off the ground. If you are feeling nostalgia for their food a better use of your time and resources might be to inquire as to their menu items. See if you cant track down one of their cooks and ask for the recipes you care about. If the cooks cant legally share them even now wait until this effort fails and then get in touch with the CEO and offer to buy the recipes off of them. If you cant afford them yourself get together a group of friends or start your own Kickstarter. Getting the recipes is a much surer way to make sure you can satisfy your nostalgia in the longterm. This feels like you are one of the members of the team and trying to get investments I think this post should be removed If it was such a great idea the leaders wouldnt be selling any equity in the business. Kamala Harris running in 2024 was almost as bad as Trump trying to remain in office Author AlternativePrior9495Post Text Let me explain. Donald Trump tried to remain in office after losing in 2020 due to a combination of factors ego delusion and a lust for power. When Joe Biden decided to drop out and immediately endorse Harris in 24 Harris decision to pull a heist for the nomination was at its core the same thing as Trumps post 2020 activities. Polling at the time indicated that Harris was *even more* unpopular than Joe Biden. Donald Trump has proven in his second term just how disastrous the implications of electing him are. In fact its probably just as bad as the Democrats claimed it would be on the camapaign. In what world does it make sense to run the person even more unpopular than the historically unpopular sitting president? These situations call for putting the country ahead of yourself. So unless Harris thought she was THE best person to possibly run against Trump she should have not run. All of the qualities that Trump exhibited arrogance lust for power delusion and worst of all putting personal ambition above the good of the country were present in Harris decision to run. Full stop. At the very least there should have been an open convention which by the way Obama tried pushing for because he knew the stakes were too high to run Harris. But the Democratic Party ever fearful of offending didnt want to present the appearance of the nomination being stolen from a Black womaneven if it meant gambling the future of the country. I put the blame 40% on Biden 60% on Harris. Biden should have indeed dropped out earlier and called for a robust transparent process to choose his replacement. BUT at least he did drop outsomething that was unprecedented. Kamala however bears enormous moral and personal responsibility for deciding to run and not earn a single vote from Democratic voters to the point where I think she definitely is culpable in some way for the current state of affairs in the United States. LMAO cmon man Trump was voted out by the people and in response instigated a coup attempt where he conspired to have documents forged and threatened his vice president into accepting these forged documents in order to install himself as president Harris put herself and her platform to the people who democratically rejected her. She then accepted the results and helped the peaceful transfer of power Kamala Harris running legally whilst unpopular is worse than trump doing an illegal power grab and faux coup? I think your scale is a little uncalibrated Harris decision to pull a heist She didnt pull a heist. She was endorsed by Biden then the party then she ran. This is not a heist this is answering a call to service. unless Harris thought she was THE best person to possibly run against Trump she should have not run. She most likely did think that. not earn a single vote from Democratic voters Every single voter that voted for Biden in either the general election in 2020 or the primaries in 2023 voted for both Joe Biden **and** Kamala Harris. And they voted for her to be the person to replace Joe if he could not fulfill his duties. He could not fulfill his duties so she replaced him which is exactly what the voters voted for. There wasnt really a whole lot of options for the democrats at that point. Joe Biden should have declined to run for reelection because he was CLEARLY not fit for a second term and then the dems should have run an open primary. But since that didnt happen the only real options they had was either have Kamala step in or do a hail Mary play and appoint someone else to be the front runner. Both were bad options there and given how Bidens administration went the democrats were in a bad spot either way. Im not really sure how taking the role of nominee particularly at a late point in the game where you are the presumptive frontrunner due to being the vice president is as bad as trying to end democracy. The second thing sounds rather worse. Notably it would be worse even with your very uncharitable framing in which Harris personally heisted a nomination. Hell it would be worse even if Harris masterminded the whole thing pushing Biden to remain in the nomination role so that she could swoop in at the last minute. Cause yknow trying to end democracy is really really really bad. So are you saying it was a bad decision or a morally bad thing? Trumps actions in 2020 are morally bad but it’s seems you are saying the democrats made a strategically bad decision and I just don’t see how you can compare those things. Regardless how does anyone get blame here really? Biden wanted to continue to be president something which he was crushing it at. He was convinced to drop out at the last minute not be Harris but by basically everyone in the Democratic Party and it seems that was a good decision. From there what did you want to happen? There was not going to be another primary so soon before the general. Is there something else you can point to that should have happened instead or are you just mad with no better solution? So unless Harris thought she was THE best person to possibly run against Trump she should have not run So like what if she did When Joe Biden decided to drop out and immediately endorse Harris in 24 Harris decision to pull a heist for the nomination was at its core the same thing as Trumps post 2020 activities. There was no heist for a nomination. In what world does it make sense to run the person even more unpopular than the historically unpopular sitting president? There was no better option given how late Biden dropped out. All of the qualities that Trump exhibited arrogance lust for power delusion and worst of all putting personal ambition above the good of the country were present in Harris decision to run. Full stop. At the very least there should have been an open convention which by the way Obama tried pushing for because he knew the stakes were too high to run Harris. But the Democratic Party ever fearful of offending didnt want to present the appearance of the nomination being stolen from a Black womaneven if it meant gambling the future of the country. There would have been no way to have a legitimate primary in so short a time frame. The most fair option was to give the nomination to Bidens running mate. After all if a sitting president resigns the vice president takes over. It only makes sense that if a nominee resigns then the running mate should take over. Kamala however bears enormous moral and personal responsibility for deciding to run and not earn a single vote from Democratic voters to the point where I think she definitely is culpable in some way for the current state of affairs in the United States. Who would you suggest should have been nominated? I think the situation that the Democrats ended up in in 2024 after Biden dropped out was a lot less straightforward than youre describing it but it doesnt really matter because Trump trying to stay in office _after he lost_ is just a fundamentally different thing. Youre comparing a bad strategy to an actual criminal conspiracy. If they had had an open primary Kamala lost and then she tried to claim she won anyway youd have something kind of close but it still wouldnt be exactly the same because the Democratic primary nomination whatever you may think of it is not a public legal process. The Democratic party is a private party. They can decide however they want to put up whatever candidate they want and you can decide that you dont like their process and refuse to vote for them. The actual Presidential election follows a legal process and Trump attempted to overtly and illegally break that process for his own benefit after he lost. In what world does it make sense to run the person even more unpopular than the historically unpopular sitting president? Since Harris was Joe Bidens running mate she was able to simply take over Joe Bidens existing campaign. This meant that the campaigns website staff and money was just transferred over to her with a simple name change. Any other canidate wouldve had to build a new campaign from the ground up in the fifteen days between Biden dropping out and the democratic national convention. Which just wasnt possible. 1. Donald Trump trying to remain in office when he lost an election is straight up illegal and unconstitutional. Period. Theres nothing more to even argue about when it comes to this. He was lying and trying to use that lie to remain in an elected position that was no longer his. 2. Kamala running after Biden stepped down was not illegal. In any way. Political parties are private organizations. Dems and Reps could never hold a primary again and just throw up a candidate every 4 years to run with 0 voter input if they wanted to. They have no obligation constitutionally speaking to hold any primary whatsoever. Had Biden stepped down from the presidency entirely and Kamala took over midway through his term it would have been perfectly legal for the democrats to run her as an incumbent in 2024 without any primary. They technically could have run whoever they wanted in 2024 without voter input at all. The only reason parties hold a primary is because it helps them gauge which candidate has the broadest appeal to their base. They dont have to listen to their base if they dont want to. Theyre just not going to win elections by doing that. So tldr at best you could argue it was dumb of them to not get more input from their base if they wanted to win. Doesnt make it illegal nor does it make it as bad as illegally trying to remain in office and subvert the actual democratic process and peaceful transition of power though thats somewhat subjective I guess Donald Trump tried to remain in office after losing in 2020 due to a combination of factors ego delusion and a lust for power. And he used illegal means to attempt to unilaterally overthrow the election results. If you dont agree with me Im happy show you. When Joe Biden decided to drop out and immediately endorse Harris in 24 Harris decision to pull a heist for the nomination was at its core the same thing as Trumps post 2020 activities. Not remotely close. Not even a tiny amount. 1 the DNC and the GOP are not government organizations. Its not illegal to replace a candidate any way they see fit. The chosen Vice Presidential candidate taking the place of the chosen Presidential Candidate makes perfect sense. 2 No election results were denied. No fraudulent schemes were concocted. No one tried to overthrow an election and throw out votes. In what world does it make sense to run the person even more unpopular than the historically unpopular sitting president? 1 it was very late in the election season holding a fast primary followed by a presidential campaign wasnt reasonable. They needed a candidate fast. 2 She was already on the winning ticket and was the person who would have replaced Biden had Biden passed away during his presidency. 3 all the campaign funds already collected could remain with her. So no refundrasing campaign needed to be had. and not earn a single vote from Democratic voters She was the sitting Vice President elected by voters into that position in 2020. The vice president has two constitutional duties. They casts the tie breaking vote in the Senate and they take over over as President if the sitting President dies or steps down or gets impeached or is otherwise unable to be President anymore. Had Biden kicked the bucket in early July 2024 or resigned the Presidency and not just declined to run for reelection thered be no question that Harris would step in as the President *and* be the one to take over the campaign. The only thing that made this situation a little weird was that Biden decided to serve out his term after suspending his campaign as late as he did. Would it have been better had Biden made that decision a year earlier and allowed a proper primary to play out such that the Democrats could have nominated someone with more daylight between them and the Biden administration and who would perhaps be better suited to the moment? Undoubtedly. But given that he didnt until he did Harris was the only democratically legitimate successor. They didnt really have a choice. Like a mediocre boxer going up against Mike Tyson in his prime you do your best to build and bolster. Youve got to at least make the PPV somewhat interesting. I liken the current Democratic Party like a bad baseball team with a bad minor league system. A party that is struggling with their identity or purpose. The GOP *could* get annihilated at the midterms or next POTUS election but the Dems just dont seem ready to receive this windfall. Its a full rightwing populist/trolling takeover in America. And thats an overcorrection that people probably dont want either. The Dems didnt handle the immigration stuff correctly and there were obvious culture war issues no matter how petty that the Dems sh*t the bed on... IE trans sports. This is such a stupid take. Kamala Harris didnt pull a heist. She won a majority of delegates to the Democratic National Convention and therefore became the nominee. But those delegates couldve chosen literally anyone. They chose her. Did you write this post under the sincere belief that president can literally hand his partys nomination to someone? No. It absolutely does not work that way. People with towering belief in their own wisdom and minuscule pools of knowledge from which to actually draw are a huge part of why were in this mess. Why on Earth would you pop off on a public forum about such a complex topic while lacking a basic understanding of it? Did you just assume you knew how the DNC operated...through osmosis? Like the *balls* it took to post this. You are going to find that she most likely did win the election. This is being suppressed online. I actually had a hard time even finding the link to this that was readily available yesterday. Harris was about as unpopular as Biden when she was nominated but at that point everyone knew Biden and he wasnt going to drastically change that in a few months. Kamala was a black slate and managed to sell herself so her popularity bounced up ahead of Bidens by election day https//today.yougov.com/topics/politics/trackers/kamalaharrisfavorability Id also note that Kamala didnt do this herself. She didnt declare herself the candidate she was nominated by Democratic delegates who came to support her over any other conceivable choice. Id also note that the possibility of getting a better candidate was weighed against the certainty of losing time money and effort in a primary battle that late in an election year. Harris decision to pull a heist for the nomination was at its core the same thing as Trumps post 2020 activities. Trump attempted to violate Constitutional processes in order to stay in office after losing a national presidential election. Harris violated the internal rules of a private corporation the Democratic Party regarding its nominating process before any presidential vote was held. The two situations are not comparable one was an attempt to break Constitutional law after an election the other involved no lawbreaking and occurred absent an election. Reminder that the Constitution says nothing about political parties &amp any party is legally free to nominate their candidates however they see fit. When Biden dropped out there was a historic amount of new donations to Harris. People who had never donated before were sending her money. The initial enthusiasm was off the charts and then every official followed that. If the vibe had been negative there probably would have been a mini primary at the convention and then that person would have lost instead. But either way she didn’t do anything illegal and nobody died. Can you say the same for Trumps actions on Jan 6? You need people to know who you are if youre running for President and 3 months is not enough. She was Vice President and had name recognition for that so she became the natural candidate. The mistake wasnt hers. The first mistake was Biden not choosing a more charismatic Vice President and the second mistake was Biden running for a second term. I dont think a different candidate couldve turned the national mood around that late. Bidens withdrawal left the Democrats with no option but Harris. They did their best and put forth a candidate worthy of a fight against Trump. IMO they did their best to save America. Unfortunately the voters decided otherwise and here we are watching the daily soap opera played out from the Oval Office while the nation goes to the drains. This my friend is unfortunately democracy or rather American democracy. So someone being chosen by the DNC was almost as bad as someone breaking the law in an attempt to illegally stay in power? Regardless of who the DNC chose they wouldn’t have received a vote from the voters. And while the nomination was decided by the convention itself anyone could have been nominated and voted on by the DNC when they met before the convention to vote on who the nominee would be. Due to campaign finance laws anyone not on the tickets namely Joe Biden and Kamala Harris wouldnt be able to use the funds raised for the Biden/Harris reelection campaign. They were forced to use her. She also not only enjoyed a significant bump in popularity following her nomination but also raised record amounts of funding in the first 24 hours of her replacing Biden. Imagine if Biden had instead died. Would it have been unlawful for Harris to take over the ticket then? The role of the VP in the modern day is to take over from the president when they die or cannot continue. Harris also would have needed to win a democratic election in order to take office. Trump on the other hand was trying to take office *despite losing*. when you say almost as bad do you mean in terms of being foolish like I am bad at math or in terms of being evil like Hitler was bad I language for both in the body of your post. heists are evil. Running an unpopular person is foolish. Primary voting was already over. Due to campaign finance laws Kamala was the only one who could use the war chest the Biden campaign had already amassed. And the only other option was to have an open convention with delegates trying to settle on a candidate which based on history can get very messy. It’s also extremely likely that Kamala still would have walked away from the convention as the nominee but with a more fractured party and even less time to campaign. It was a huge ask for her to step up. It was an uphill battle from the start and it was pretty clear that if she lost it would be hard to run again in the future. She sacrificed her political career to try to stop Trump. I’d call that putting country before self. What Trump wanted to do was illegal and a direct violation of the countrys most basic laws the ones that govern the peaceful and democratic transfer of power. What Harris did might have been selfish as you say but was completely legal and did not threaten the fundamental institutions of the nation. It may have been bad. It may even have been very bad. But even if so it was *nowhere near* as bad. Joe Biden being nominated at all by the Democratic party after his first term was the dumb move. Unless the Democrats start nominating people that are more radical than Bernie Sanders they will always look like assholes centrists. After seeing things play out for enough years Im quite sure that the main thing going on here is that the ultra rich control the direction of how things are going to play out in the US and they just put a red or blue face up depending on how they want to manipulate public opinion on how things are going to go anyway. Roe v Wade was overturned during Bidens presidency. Everyone told him to stack the court so they couldnt do it but the truth is Biden voted against roe v Wade back in 1982 Probably place the blame more so the democrats leadership tbh and Biden. Most people wouldnt have self awareness and levity to think they arent the right person to win and even if they do would they still be selfless enough to step aside. I honestly believe she believed she could win. Foolish and naive of her and more importantly the Democrats decision makers but understandable. FYI I despised her for her indifference to the suffering in Gaza so Im certainly not keen to defend her. The Democratic Party is such a mess right now. Harris performed very poorly in her 2020 run for the Presidency. I dont know how anyone thought she would do better in 2024 other than the fact that many people would vote for anyone other than Trump. The Dems need to run candidates that people want to vote for. The true jobdisrupting power of LLMs isn’t task execution but replacing the interface layer So this CMV is LLM+automation more from a manager/executives point of view. And to be clear this is less about whether I am proAI vs antiAI but just concentrating on what I perceive as an underrated utility of LLM in the workplace. People often focus on how large language models LLMs can now presumably replace workers by doing specific tasks writing code drafting emails summarizing documents etc. But I think this framing misses the real disruptive potential. I manage a research group of about 20 people where most of our work involves running complex computer simulations. My main role is deciding what problems are worth solving and then delegating those tasks. We’ve had automation tools for years such as batch job scripts input generators etc. and I suppose in theory much of the workflow could’ve been automated even before LLMs came along. But I never seriously considered replacing people with scripts. Why? Because that would’ve made me a oneperson show responsible for generating ideas executing debugging iterating all while lacking any external feedback from others. LLMs changed that. Now I can actually talk to the system and explore ideas and make adjustments just like I would with a competent team member. And the key point here is that I can stay at my usual abstraction layer as a manager. I can still delegate. I just don’t need a human to carry out the steps. That’s what makes automation suddenly feel nat*ural* and viable. Not because the underlying tools changed but because the interface changed. And I feel like this is the underrated aspect of what LLM has brought to the workplace. When the personlike interface stays in tact and you need not worry about dealing with drama that is associated with work relationships then it is not surprising that a lot of people are thinking about not just LLM but LLM + all the existing automation tools that was already present to optimize the system. **CMV** The most disruptive thing about LLMs so far isn’t their task performance. It is their ability to serve as a personlike interface that enables highlevel delegation without a human in the loop. I think your view is reasonable from your perspective. For what its worth Im in a somewhat similar role to yours but with more exposure to ML research. And personally I think that one of the potential benefits *is* cheap api prototyping for people with little programming ability. Run these three simulations adjusting these parameters until these parameters suggest simulations have converged is a hard thing to write down. You still have to build other elements of the system of course. I think the reason your view is incomplete is that there are a lot of what Doug Graeber calls bullshit jobs. Or at best a significant fraction of lets say typical office employees are taking data and formatting it into a report. The datatoreport step could have been automated in 2005 but there was friction involved in making that happen. And maybe for some data types it would have been very hard or impossible until lets say 20152020. The friction is now zero because even without specific finetuning a large language model is *really* good at tasks like transforming text. Thats the 1020% unemployment that youve suggested is catastrophic in other posts. Of course being able to orchestrate lowerlevel components tools often in the jargon is valuable and doing so without requiring programming expertise is neat but *in isolation* that change does not lead to catastrophic unemployment its a supercharged lowcode/nocode application builder. Well the point of LLMs is they are only the interface level. Thats all it is. Youd find you had a great time right up until you hit a novel issue and need some innovation. So the *true* job disrupting power of AI is that it might take 6 months to a year for people to realise they are missing what humans provide and the LLM isnt as nearly as clever as they thought. They are yes men. I want to challenge your idea on disruptive. I reckon in the grand scheme all our positive efforts and lack of are to satisfy demands and wants. Humans are actually more disruptive especially when you need to report to higher ups and introducing the need for complex communication. LLM is a huge step towards less disruptiveness that lessens effort and complexity to actually give people what they want. We should be focusing on ways that give people income/subtance that dissociates from work instead of forcing people into meaningless work that can now be done by LLMs which would go back to being disruptive. But I never seriously considered replacing people with scripts. Why? Because that would’ve made me a oneperson show responsible for generating ideas executing debugging iterating all while lacking any external feedback from others. If I read between the lines then the reason here is that those scripts actually aren’t capable of doing all the work. They would require significant amount of additional work to become fit for purpose if they could ever become that. Then for each new task there will be more significant amount of work to write new scripts. So your problem is not the interface it’s that you alone are not able to perform the tasks whether it is due to skill or time constraints. In that context the LLM is not primarily providing you value in interface there are plenty of chat bots from before LLMs. There are also literally random people you can speak to on reddit that offer the same interface. It’s the underlying ability to actually execute the tasks. LLMs changed that. Now I can actually talk to the system and explore ideas and make adjustments just like I would with a competent team member. And the key point here is that I can stay at my usual abstraction layer as a manager. I can still delegate. I just don’t need a human to carry out the steps. LLMs have an inclination towards Youre with a slightly more interactive duck. You want other people because theyll be able to come up with different solutions and adapt to change in ambiguous circumstances whereas youre putting your trust in a probabilistic model spitting out text. I mean this is really too multifaceted to lay efficacy of AI at the feet of any one thing. Just to give you an example I used to work at an automotive firm that is one of the biggest in California Which is huge on huge. I did payroll. Their enterprise resource system was from the 1980s. I m talking Blue Screen yellow low resolution text and the cursor was a yellow square. I worked for them for exactly 2 months back in 2020 because it was covid and I just finished college and I immediately balked after I had put those checks away because they were still on an employee system that had paper files the length of my arm for some people coming back and leaving over the years Needless to say that the business was built on that entire old ass system for both Payroll and Employee onboarding and it was miserable. If I had GPT back then I would be running that fucking company by now. GPT would of allowed me to futureforward their entire ERP system to something modern in a painless transition *simply* because GPT functions as a glue between any two steps of the tech stack. Say you need to strip data from paperwork Say that the paper has to exist for compliance reasons. Being able to convert a physical artifact into a digital output in seconds is the kind of thing that saves hundreds of thousands of dollars in effort. Even as a going concern for industries that rely on H1B visas like Agriculture where ag workers arent usually tech savvy being able to overcome that painpoint by taking pictures of paperwork is huge. In reality its less about task execution and its more about compressed workflows. Especially any legacy systems that are hard to shift off of this offers a very labor and effort cheap pathway to modernizing established businesses which has cascading effects on everything. People who believe hard work is the only answer for everything are incorrect So this is my first time posting here and I have over my 26 years on this planet nailed down what annoys me with so many people. Whenever someone struggles lets say economically or similar theres always a plethora of people on social media and whatnot with the same kind of answer work harder get a job and whatnot. Basically speaking people have a hard time understanding that more often than not in life there are things you cannot change no matter what you do. No matter how hard you work or push yourself. Its the sad but honest reality hit. This idea that anyone can achieve what they want if they simply work hard enough is purely delusional. It can be different things for everyone. Depending on what they want really. For some its the realisation that theyll never ever get the dream job they want. That theyll never be able to own a house or something. Maybe even having to accept not being able to have babies. Either way it annoys me to no end when the same responses keep piling in on different media. Acceptance and an understanding of reality is more valuable than blind hope. In my case I have an okay life still Im nowhere near my personal goals and while I work towards them as best as I can. Even I know realistically speaking there are some things that just can never happen. I think pushing the mindset of endless positivity really is more of a hurtful thing than anything else. Acceptance over how awful and unfair life really can be is something I think should be more acknowledged. more often than not If you live in a western country with economic opportunity then no more often than not hard/ smart work is enough. Not every time not all the time but in most cases. Plus its the only thing you as an individual can control so its logical to focus your efforts on those things as opposed to things outside of your control. If youre the third party then its fine to focus more on those external factors because in that case A none of it is in your control so there is no priority of focus B focusing on those external factors cant be confused with selfishness or self pity. I agree with your key underlying point where I would cmv is theres not many people who say work harder as a blanket statement in all scenarios. Perhaps on the internet but irl people have far more nuanced views. The debate is better framed as people who are more inclined to believe hard work and fortitude is the answer and people who are more inclined to think some people need a leg up. The real world is messy and in most cases its probably a mixture of luck support and hard work. And I think most people realise that the only difference is the extent to which people believe this mixture needs to be employed and when. Hard work might not always get you what you want but more often than not hard work puts you in a good place economically. Life is more luck than people want to admit. I’m 50 and the older I get the clearer this becomes. Acceptance and an understanding of reality is more valuable than blind hope. So what do you want? When someone asks a questio/ post a problem for people to just say yeah thats life? Atleast putting in work and grinding will get you somewhere besides and online pity party. Reality is that advising someone to work harder/ smarter towards their goals is endlessly better than telling them to accept their situation and advising them that its just not in their power to change things. Plenty of people in the US have come from nothing and made something of themselves. Plenty of people have made it here worked hard for there own life had kids focused on family and education and given those kids a much better shot at a good life. It would be more acknowledged BUT… The problem with this is the mere existence of people who face debilitating circumstances in their lives far exceeding what the average person faces who fight continuously and manage to achieve things beyond their dreams. Their mere existence is a cold splash of water in the face of anyone who thinks this way. In truth they all but prove that we are only limited by our level of drive and the cooperation of others because no one does anything alone even when they think they do there’s always someone out there who could stop you. If they don’t that’s their passive participation. I was just talking to someone the other day it was yesterday actually why’d I say the other day?” about manipulating people and how you don’t actually have to give anyone anything to move them. You only have to convince them that they might obtain something. On the flip side of that if you can convince someone that something desirable absolutely cannot be obtained? You can stop them from ever pursuing it even when it’s right in front of them! Has that sentiment overcome you? Look. I’m willing to bet that your viewpoint is the direct result of you simply lacking the necessary drive which sounds like an attack but it isn’t. It’s a math problem. If the task requires more drive than you have you’ll view it as something unconquerable no matter your circumstances or abilities. But I’m not blaming you for that. Your deficiencies are a direct result of your environment. The fact is your framing of the situation as something being impossible for you is excessively merciful. Don’t bear that weight alone! Blame the world because it is an equal partner in the collaborative work that is your life. If it fails to inspire you adequately? That is a criticism that it deserves to hear and maybe just maybe it will change its ways and finally give you a taste of something that you will genuinely feel is worth fighting for—because you want it *AND* the world actually makes it look achievable. How many hours a week are you working? Try working 80 having no social life and sleeping in your car for years. Thats what I did. It worked. Why did I do it? Because I refuse to accept life as a loser. There is something you can do. Go do it. Life is hard no one disagrees with that. Wants and dreams evolve with time and life. But if no one dreamed about flying with the birds would there be planes? Yes at times we must be realists but we also need to dream big if not we would still be in caves. I mean if you are willing to work 80+ hours a week you will go far further in whatever career path you choose then anyone else by virtue of being much more productive then everyone else. It’s not that it’s impossible it’s that achieving that goal isn’t worth the cost. But something not being worth the costs doesn’t mean it’s impossible. One thing I have noticed in westerners and I assume you are American or Western European is to say someone can’t do something when in reality it is merely very difficult. Take disability for example there are very few conditions that truly prevent someone from not being able to have a job. A person in a wheelchair could still work an office job and a person with intellectual disabilities can still stand outside a business holding a sign yet for some reason we claim that they literally can’t work. Hard work is a multiplier of what you do and what you are good at. Just working harder us not solving much for some its a way to make a little extra cash but the extra hard work is not doing much. But its still a multiplier. If you study studying hard is a multiplier. If youre selfemployed but doing the wrong thing working harder wont so anything but if youre doing the right things working harder is a multiplied. But working harder means doing other things less and those things could be equally important your wellbeing family health etc. Hard work helps you go from good to great from a small income to a slightly bigger income and it may also help you get breakthroughs. But its not magic. Reality is that if you dont have investments in stocks you are probably too poor to do well in general and theres nothing you can do about it. These same assholes telling you to work harder get 1000 dollars a week from their dividends and investments and do so little in life they should be embarrassed It’s just luck sadly. You can do all the hard work and be in the right place and talk to the right people. It’s just comes down to luck and if people like you I think there are two ways of looking at this. As some people have argued if you live in a privileged place it is likely working hard will lead to some economic benefit. Can’t fix everything but yes you will likely be better off than if you did not work hard. I think where this belief goes wrong is where it’s used as an excuse to justify economic and social injustice. So for example if someone who works at a fast food restaurant wants a living wage and we say Well if you’re not making enough to afford rent and food you should work harder and get a better job.” That math doesn’t work scaled up to a whole society. If every single person on earth hustled hard and was on their grind at 4am visualizing early retirement and trying to build startups the world would not suddenly be populated by CEOs. Some people would still end up on the lower end of the economic ladder regardless of how hard they were hustling. those jobs are essential so they deserve to be respected and fairly compensated. Imagine that you had all the land and resources and it was taken away from you stolen!!!!! Imagine being indoctrinated by Christianityand being told that there is salvation in the other life. Imagine having to participate in an economic system that was built on the backs of your ancestorsfor which you did not receive anything!!!!!! Fast forward to this Economy that has evolved and became a haven for Plutocrats!!!! Time for a change!!!! The suffering will only get worse!!! What most people aren’t willing to tell to others or to accept it themselves is hard work alone is not sufficient. You need considerable luck too. They forget that they got a lot of help knowingly or unknowingly… Just for clarification I think I know the answer but just to be sure you **are** talking primarily out of a western / american perspective right? Im primarily asking because many other countries could be much more aware of the predetermination of their life. There are people who work hard and there are people that work smart. The latter own the world the former will be wage slaves til they pass on. Can you people stop asking to have your view changed on shit that genuinely 100% of the world agrees with Hard work” not exactly disciplined precise and purpose drive and goal oriented sure. I think you fit perfectly into Indians caste system that aligns well with your view. I got way more lucky when I worked 84 hrs a week than when I worked 40. There’s a fair amount of luck that goes into it as well. I got lucky with the lottery so right there with you man Correct. Look at the origins of the phrase pick you up by your bootstraps.” It’s frustrating hardwork in the right direction with common sense I see it slightly different. Within the current laws and system you could argue that each person can optimize their life by working hard eating healthy being kind etc. However the rules of the game such as the tax code affordable housing etc are very much subject to change. Too often I hear people talk about the very optimization you are referring to about working hard. At some point it is actually a better use of time to lobby for tax reform less tax breaks for billionaires than it is to work harder even if your goal is to optimize your own wellbeing. Dude we know there are special cases where people have had a hard time for any one of a million different reasons. When we say work harder we’re talking to the people who don’t work hard enough. Because you can improve your lot in life in the US no matter where you start. We should not deport illegal immigrants who are here peacefully Aside from strictly legalistic reasons what are the material reasons to deport people who bring their family here work and contribute to the workforce? For clarification I’m not asking why not have an open border. I’m asking why we should spend resources tracking people who have been here peacefully for years. I know a lot of these people and really love them. I can’t wrap my head around what the country will gain by deporting them. The reasons I am used to hearing are giving back jobs to American workers they bring down wages sanctuary cities cause instability etc. A little less common cultural assimilation issues immigrants will vote democrat great replacement theory etc. As someone who is more progressive I don’t really find these arguments compelling for boilerplate reasons you’ve probably heard many times already I’m happy to talk about them though. I’m just wondering what else I’m missing. Why kick out nonviolent people? EDIT From a lot of the comments I realize I could have made the title clearer. I’m not asking about why we should have and enforce the law. I’m wondering why would should spend billions actively trying to enforce the law to the fullest extent. My concern is really with the Trump administration’s aggressive policy. Because by breaking into the country they already disrespected both the country itself as well as its laws. Even if they dont break other laws i would not want anyone here based on that principle alone I mean this isn’t uniquely American all countries do this. Why should people who are legally trying to enter the country go through the processes and respect our laws if the people who enter illegally can cut the line and suffer no consequences. Would you allow a trespasser to set up a house on your lawn as long as they didn’t cause any trouble? Trumps a monster but at the same time I don’t think people should be rewarded for breaking the law and coming here Im not asking why we shouldnt have an open border policy But you are. Not having an enforced punishment for being in the country illegally is an open border policy in all but name. if immigration laws aren’t enforced consistently it encourages future violations. Governments fear creating a precedent where people believe overstaying visas or crossing without authorization will eventually be overlooked weakening the system overall. It’s not about punishing peaceful people it’s about upholding credibility in the rules. Although what Trump is doing is another story............ You shouldn’t get a pass cuz you break the law less bad If you haven’t noticed we are in a housing shortage. Not only do illegals bring down wages they make housing more expensive for regular folks as the demand goes higher and higher. Before the surge of illegal immigration in the 70s and 80s you could make a decent living on one income now it requires 2 plus overtime to even get ahead. Also I will point out when seeking asylum your supposed to go to the nearest bordering country before not cross multiple countries and declare it in americamost of these people are from South America. That’s just plane old country shopping . Most of there bases of asylum are false and use underground markets to get people’s identity. How does one determine whether someone was here peacefully? All that could mean is that they didnt get caught in any wrongdoing while they were in the country illegally. Laws are laws. If they arent enforced then they are meaningless. We definitely should. Even on principle alone we set a precedent and established rules on how to enter the country legally and created avenues for expedited legal entry. Every other country has strict immigration policy. There’s economical aspect as well they’re contributing to the work force sure but they’re operating under the table taking way lower wages hurting the Americans who work in the same industry and aren’t paying into taxes outside of consumer based taxes. Illegal immigrants can’t get licenses throughout a lot of the us because they aren’t in the country legally so they contribute to high insurance rates they take up housing that families who are legally here could utilize. Then they take up slots in schools and other government services while not paying state local and federal taxes. Realistically prior to 2021 immigration was an issue but it was more catch them at the boarder and when law enforcement came across them committing a crimecriminal or traffic law enforcement would arrest fingerprint ICE would put a hold and pick them up and they would go through the process of deportation. However after Joe Biden curved Immigration ventures and basically made it a free for all we are now in a state of picking up the pieces and rebuilding. Now it’s not pretty but what ICE is doing now is fast and aggressive immigration enforcement its opposite of the pendulum from the previous administration. IMO this is caused by the last administration they controlled the house senate and presidency they could have pushed bills and reform to immigration to allow hardworking people to stay while pushing out criminals and gang members but they were too busy playing politics and talk points to care. The tactic now is go after illegal immigrants with federal warrants and anyone in their immediate area to ID and see if they’re illegal then to put them through the deportation process which has been expedited. What about pure fairness? Many many people go through the legal immigration channels which takes years and large amounts of time stress dedication and money. Why should we reward those who break the law by allowing illegal immigration? For fairness there must be punishment not reward for entering illegally. Deportation is the absolute minimum. If we dont deport illegal immigrants then that is an open border. Just simply Americans voted for deporting illegal immigrants regardless of peaceful or not. They are allowed to instruct how their country operates. The material reasons are people wanted it and so now they are getting it. You have to first accept the idea of nationhood in the sense that you are part of a greater community and you owe your allegiance to your countrymen. This is about where your loyalties lie. When you do that then you will understand why to value the interests of your people over the interests of those who are not your people. This is a formative emotional thing that cant be logically argued for. If you have done that then you can analyze immigration policy putting the interests of your countrymen first not the interests of immigrants. Then see the impact that immigration has. Wages and housing costs are a function of supply and demand. Each additional immigrant decreases wages increases housing costs and puts strain on social services. Increased traffic congestion utilization of emergency services and other socialized services. Often immigrants tend to send money back to their home countries remittances and remove that money from the local economy. If the particular job an immigrant has a skillset in has high wages then thats the labor market communicating to us that we need those kinds of people. It is worth it for us to keep such an immigrant here despite the drawbacks. However if the job the immigrant tends to work in has low wages then it is not worth it for us to keep that immigrant here and it is probably in our interests to deport him or her. Its also important to note that most undocumented immigrants work in low wage work and depress wages for the people who are already at the low end of the economic spectrum. It is those of our countrymen who are needing help and end up utilizing social welfare services like food stamps medicaid and section 8 etc. A way that we can help our working poor is to decrease their housing costs and increase their wages by deporting a lot of their labor and housing competition. I have a better understanding of immigration in the US having gone through it and having a ton of people in my community that did/are/planning on going through it. Legal immigrants should be given more protection than illegal immigrants. Plenty of people are here for 10+ years legally and are forced to leave. Having illegal immigrants stay for that reason means I should encourage my friends who are here legally to become illegal as being illegal means you enjoy more security. The hardest part about being in the legal immigration process is the uncertainty. They can reject your application at any time. And the moment they do youre on a few week timer to pack your shit and get out. These are people who went to college grad school OPT for 2 years even got the H1B lottery and been here for 15 years. They fail their 2nd lottery they must leave within weeks. Many people cant find a sponsor after their 4 years of undergrad 2 years of grad 2 years of opt and they have to leave because their status is expiring. We should NOT encourage those people to just become illegal immigrants. Something other commenters havent touched on is that illegal immigrants are prone to exploitation. Certain employers or criminals threaten illegal immigrants with snitching or deportation and exploit them for poor wages unsafe conditions and preventing them from reporting or receiving healthcare. Additionally cultural cohesion is a big concern whether you realize it or not. The pace and scale of immigration illegal especially is creating large and impoverished ethnic enclaves that perpetuate inequality racism and a lack of societal trust. While this was true with certain European ethnic groups a century ago globalism vaster differences declining fertility rates and greater scale is making it different and also hard to say with certainty that assimilation of vast illegals will end up fine. Personally I dont care. If someone is a net gain they can stay I have no problem. At that point they should be made citizens or at least legal residents so they can properly be in the system. If they are illegal they are either working under the table or using a fake SSN which is not ideal. Ideally something like a probationary visa for a couple years maybe if you are a net positive over those two years paying in more than you take out or at least breaking even no criminal record etc then they become a permanent resident with a fast path to citizenship. For the purpose of the post being here peacefully and being a productive member of society arent necessarily the same thing. I can be peaceful sitting at home doing absolutely nothing. I dont see why that is a benefit to the country. This specific argument or any argument in favor of illegal immigration is rooted in the entitlement that America *owes* them citizenship. That they have some right to occupy and they just need to overcome the technicality of not yet being inside the countrys boundaries. They have no right to American citizenship or occupancy. America has no obligation to give them citizenship or residency. If you look at the discourse about illegal immigration it all reeks with entitlement. Nearly every conversation of illegal immigration is basically get a lawyer or giving a laundry list of forms they have already filled out. Like its just a repeatable process with a guaranteed outcome. Like if you fill out enough of the right paperwork or pay a lawyer enough then you deserve citizenship. I’m pretty pro immigration generally and think amnesty as part of a broader solution is important. That aside not subjecting those folks to deportation eventually at least when they are eligible for it would undoubtedly incentivize others to take that same road. Some people who take that road might have decent intentions but others may not but as long as they wouldn’t be subject to deportation eventually if they just lay low” they can all take advantage of that. This could have consequences like encouraging more migration adding to an existing issue. It can be a security issue as well for longer term espionage. I’d be ok with that if democratic leadership admitted why they brought them here in the first place. They played the long game of getting as many in with the hopes of getting them citizenship down the road with the belief that they’d be dem voters which I think is a miscalculation of them. But the story is sold to the liberal voters as the feel good story. They are just hard workers trying to provide for their family. The other team just hates them because they are a racist. You support them because you’re one of the good guys” etc ad nauseam. For clarification I’m not asking why not have an open border. I’m asking why we should spend resources tracking people who have been here peacefully for years. You kind of are it encourages more people to come in illegally perpetually and indefinitely which is defacto open borders unless you secure the border so its physically impossible to come in illegally which again is impossible without lethal force which Im guessing youre also against. So pick your poison Deportations Open borders Securing the border with lethal force ...Why should people who break the law not be punished appropriately for it? 2 reasons I may add first millions coming over in a matter of a few years is destabilizing to any country. It’s hard if not impossible to vet everyone and this causes potential harm to residents see Egyptian man who lit people on fire while under the radar. Second it’s a well understood phenomenon that a high influx of immigrants leads to skyrocketing housing prices. Millenials and Gen Z working their asses off may never see the inside of a home they purchased with the way prices have gone in the past 5 years. The reasons I am used to hearing are giving back jobs to American workers they bring down wages sanctuary cities cause instability etc... I don’t really find these arguments compelling for boilerplate reasons you’ve probably heard many times already I’m happy to talk about them though. I would like to hear the boilerplate reasons you arent concerned with low wages and overburdened welfare systems. Aside from strictly legalistic reasons what are the material reasons to deport people who bring their family here work and contribute to the workforce? For clarification I’m not asking why not have an open border. Yes you are. These are the same question. If you think we shouldnt deport people who immigrate illegally you think there should be an open border. The best thing to do for the majority of the American people and the economy would be to just declare an amnesty and let every illegal become legal. Only the racists and facsists and exploiters would be upset but even they will be better off in the long run all that underground economy suddenly in the open being taxed all those underpaid workers now making and spending more money. All the savings from abolishing ICE and all the other antiimmigrant policing and court time. This is wrong on so many levels the illegals are not vetted someone can be a murderer in their home country and not do any crime in the US it will create a big imbalance in the world people from third world country would move en masse to first world countries and this is not sustainable as the host countries have limited ressources hospitals schools jobs etc and the third world countries would be drained The reason is that allowing who are here illegally to remain rewards bad behaviors and only encourages more people to do the same. This does not include the inherent frauds that are committed for a illegal immigrant to live and work in the country. Violence is not the only wrong that needs to be punished. That creates a situation and mentality where breaking the law is not only allowed but actively encouraged. If you can avoid being caught for a few years then youre golden. If youre in favor of disregarding the law as is then you should change the law. What do you consider the great replacement theory to be and why dont you consider it compelling? Just for fun? Like overstaying your visa? Or in actual dire circumstances? Like seeking asylum? How about No Free Medical No Free Housing No Foodstamps No Free Obama Phones” No Voting EVER No Free School? Did you know you could save the lives of like 8 or 9 people if you donated all your organs? If you gave up your own life today it could mean that up to 9 people who would otherwise die could go on to live a full life. Should you give yourself up to save so many? Should America also destroy itself in an attempt to save others? Theres billions of people who would after access to a better life in America than where they are now. Billions. You cant just allow the precedent of allowing illegal entrants to stay because they want to. Spending Money on Nice Cars/Houses/Things is crucial to financial success Hard work is a tool used to portray the idea of equality within the world and increase production from the poor and naive. Hard work does not guarantee success but it does guarantee a broken back. Perception is what separates the successful and unsuccesful. From most social interactions first perceived notions about someone decides outcomes. For example two people are selling. One person comes in a suit and a brand new Ferrari the other comes in regular clothes and a Honda. Most people will give first priority to the guy with the Ferrari. This even applies to everyday people. People compete for the same job and its typically given to the person who already has nicer things. Despite the normal person being a better fit. Furthermore people form cliques and people with money have nicer things. These people are typically in higher positions. To have a chance to network you need to fit in. They wont be caught being close friends with a janitorwith small exceptions. For success saving and looking frugal is a guarantee to stay frugal. This is straight bunk. The founder of IKEA was a billionaire who flew economy and drove a Volvo his entire career right up until his death. Steve Jobs built an entire persona around wearing turtlenecks which spawned an entire new cultural norm for tech executives. Sure it takes more than hard work to make it it takes intelligence accumen vision charisma...and in this very unfair world a healthy dose of luck...but trying to pretend youre more successful than you are is likely to backfire. The intelligent competent rich people you are trying to network with/woo as clients can smell it on you instantly and theyll run the other way. The kernel of truth in what you are saying is that privilege exists who you know who your parents know the colour of your skin your sexuality your socioeconomic status your ability...every single factor will compound to in gamer speak either nerf you or buff you in life. If a wealthy white Harvard graduate drives a used corolla and wears a cheap suit to his interview theyll view him as a bright and fiscally responsible young lad. If a wealthy black Harvard graduate wears an Armani suit and drives a Ferrari to his interview theyll frown and wonder where he or his family got the money from. Context is *everything*. Assertions 1. Spending Money On Luxury Items Is the Key to Wealth..................... DISAGREE 2. Hard work is a tool used to exploit poor and naive people............... Is it? 3. Working Hard Doesnt Guarantee Success............................................... Agree 4. Hard Work Guarantees a Broken Back....................................................... Maybe? 5. First Impressions/Perceptions Are Important.......................................... Agree 6. Perception Is What Dictates Success.......................................................... DISAGREE Reversed 7. People Who Have Nice Stuff Are Treated Better................................... Agree I see it 8. Competitive Jobs Go To People With Nice Things............................... DISAGREE 9. People With Money Form Cliques/Groups.............................................. Ok 10. People With Money Have Nicer Things.................................................... Ok 11. Positive Correlation B/W High Paying Jobs &amp Wealth........................ Agreeish 12. Cant Be Wealthy If You Live Within Your Means................................ DISAGREE I feel like Im missing something. Im having a hard time understanding how you arrived at your conclusion from these points. This is like saying Smoking is the key to living a long and healthy life. I have a few questions please help me to better understand your POV. Questions * What does financially successful mean to you? Metrics/thresholds? * What advice would you offer to the average person interested in adopting your wealth philosophy? * After buying the nice house car and suits how does one use these things to build wealth? * If everyone drove exotic cars and wore designer clothes would we all be better off? * How would I know/spot someone one who was just pretending to be rich? Does it matter? For example two people are selling. One person comes in a suit and a brand new Ferrari the other comes in regular clothes and a Honda. Most people will give first priority to the guy with the Ferrari. This even applies to everyday people. Not all people work in sales or whos success requires manipulating people. I have never asked to see my doctors car and I cant imagine most people do. Also if I were to hire an accountant I would hire the accountant with the Honda 100% because I would not trust an accountant with a Ferrari perhaps they skim money from clients. People compete for the same job and its typically given to the person who already has nicer things. In which interview does an interviewer ask you to list all the nice things you own? For success saving and looking frugal is a guarantee to stay frugal. Why does that negate success? There is nothing wrong with being frugal. Conspicuous consumption is an old formula but its always been a gamble. Putting all your chips on perception rather than material return is unlikely to result in a win even if you could get a hit. Fake it till you make it might be a great slogan but its not practical by the numbers. Its not hard work to make the safe choice and going into debt or overextending ones self to make appearances is not a safe choice. At some point for regular folks leaving aside the celebrity and nepo baby nonsense competition passes the appearance level and encounters the competence level. Its capitalism. The key to success is having capital/assets that generate wealth for you. The guy trying too hard to look rich just to scrape a lower 6 figure income will never beat a person who actually is rich and earns 6 figures off the back of investments. The S&ampP 500 since 2015 has grown an average of 11.91% per year. Inflation is roughly 3% per year. If you have wealth like actual wealth like 3 million dollarydoos. You would be getting roughly 20k of returns each month year on year average over the last 10 years obviously 2223 would be a bad year but w/e. That is financial success. Having assets and investments generate immense wealth for your persons without lifting a finger. While housing absolutely appreciates well in value a ferrari is effectively a hole to pour money into that you will never see anything come out of. And no people will not give you a job because you drive a ferrari. Things lose value so much so that I claim tax write off that shit via depreciation since I live in a house I rent out. The furnishings and shared appliances experience wear and tear from being shared with renters and its recognised by the government. Anyone can afford a Louis Vuitton branded piece of merch nowadays. Only the onstentious and stupid believe it makes them look wealthy. I know wealthy people. They too can buy Louis Vuitton and Chanel and shit but you will never see the logo. The actual wealthy people the ones whose circle you reckon you can get into by flashing middle income debt wealth. A person who owns 14 properties and retires at 40 is not going to be impressed by your shitty car or branded clothing. Nor will their advice be applicable to you anymore than me telling you to invest 3 million into the S&ampP will make you successful. But investing absolutely is crucial to financial success. I know of doctors who earn solid 6 figures live paycheck to paycheck because they live like you suggest and burn through their money rather than save and invest. Your idea is what a poor person thinks a rich person is like. Actual rich people only marginally work for their wealth their wealth is the accumulation and growth of assets and investments. One of my coworkers graduated from the same research lab as me a bit later than me. When he interviewed for his current job he dressed up in a nice suit because he thought people wear suits to job interviews. Because of this he was perceived as potentially pretentious. Concerns were raised that he might be a poor fit for the group. This was an technical engineering job. It pays well. But wearing too nice of clothes makes someone fit in less well. He got the job in spite of the suit in part because I knew him and could vouch for him. Displays of wealth are helpful in some contexts and hinder in others. Lets say hypothetically you are right that someone needs to display wealth to succeed in a certain context. I dont think thats true at all in many engineering contexts. but seems plausible in private equity or some other finance adjacent stuff. Do you really need an expensive house? How often do you need to host? wouldnt it be financially cheaper to rent out an expensive venue a couple times a year to host and display wealth that way? How often do you need to impress someone with the vehicle? How feasible is renting for that? putting yourself deep into debt pretending to be rich seems like a big risk. You can look rich with much less long term commitments of your money. When you say perception separates success from lack thereof you are defining success as appearing to be rich even if you are not which is already different from financial success which is in the topic statement. Moreover although appearances can help you they are not essential if you are just good enough at what you do. Your statement about people with nicer things getting jobs is frankly wrong and unsubstantiated. If there is any correlation it is because people who are good at their jobs get promoted. Buying a car outside your budget doesn’t mean a millionaire is suddenly going to invite you to his wine tasting networking event. More likely you will end in debt and taking bad loans with the same job you had before. Looking rich is exactly as hollow as it sounds. Spending on goods that don’t hold their value definitely won’t make you richer. People that are already rich do have an easier time getting more money and good jobs but dont be mistaken its mostly not because of the nicer things they have. Its because of the connections. The hardest part of getting a job is not getting your resume tossed away because they got literally 1k applicants and its impractical to read all of them. If you have a connection you skip that step all the people who got their resume filtered by a machine a Ferrari wouldnt have helped. I can tell you have no experience with the truly wealthy. I know sort of well off people who try to flaunt their money but every billionaire/multimultimillionairep i know tries to hide it under most circumstances https//youtube.com/shorts/xgsJofT2QWA?si=lRIdvt2bNr2QH1Es Easy counter ever When have you as an interviewer ever asked to see someones car or house? If you mean a nice suit youre talking about an expenditure less than 1% the price of a house and sometimes overly fancy even then. YOU have to fit the suit youre wearing. Heres my advice. If your friend buys a $1000 phone you buy a old refurbished phone for $100200 thats about as good and use the extra $800900 on a fun trip with your family or a challenging hobby. If I want to hire a plumber one shows up in work clothes in a work van and the other in a suit in a Ferrari I am going to assume the Ferrari guy will be overcharging me In all likelihood most Americans would support the actions of the Galactic Empire This is not targeted towards any political party but Americans historically as a whole If Americans were magically transported to Galactic Empire era Star Wars they would support the Galactic Empire. For those who may not know the Galactic Empire from Star Wars is/ was an authoritarian regime that used increasingly brutal practices to suppress the people living within it. Sure people would go we wouldnt support blowing up entire planets but I say malarkey. The justification of the Empire destroying Alderaan was they were supporting the rebellion. At least half of the voting demographic would support such heavy handed actions to handle rebels. Now further proof. The government drastically enhancing the punishment of crimes creating new crimes and engaging in harsher crackdowns of newly created crimes. Then creating prison camps like Narkina 5 which was a labor camp on a secret planet where people are sent there with no hope of release. Richard Nixon created the first Drug War laws which created brand new crimes and sent a lot of people to prison. He won reelection until Watergate. Even more infamous Ronald Reagan created the most brutal Drug War laws and doubled or even tripled the US prison population. He won reelection in a historic landslide. Recently Donald Trump won reelection in a landslide where he won a majority of states he campaigned and handling illegal immigration using heavy handed tactics. Now he is bypassing due process and initiating very heavy handed ICE raids and having border patrol areest visiting tourists for the smallest document irregularities. Then sending deportees to a secret prison in El Salvador where they have no hope of release The majority of Americans support this through voting for these policies. Galactic Empire has openly allowed slavery to fuel its economy. Completely wiped out the Geonosians enslaved the Wookies many many other cases Lets go even further historically. Slavery existed for 200 years in America note how I didnt say United States as it existed before US was even a country. US actually had an entire Civil War because the Southern states wanted to maintain slavery the Articles of Secession by most states who joined the Confederacy mentioned keeping slavery as a reason why they left the union. Meaning people wanted to keep slavery to the point of wanting to secede from the Union. Genocide of the Native Americans nothing else needed to be said. Jim Crow era and Social Darwinism. Black codes lasted for 100 years and more than half the country kept voting for Jim Crow laws. Heck the modern antiwoke movement is very literally copying the same exact arguments Social Darwinism era people used to excuse refusing to provide black people the opportunity of employment. Overall US history and current climate proves the Americans would support the Galactic Empire Would love for my views to be changed Prior to the Galactic Empire was the Galactic Republic. The different worlds had different levels of power within the Republic. The USA equivalent could be a powerful world within the Republic a world comparable to Alderaan. However that came crashing down when Palpatine took over. He usurped the power of the Galactic Senate and placed all power unto himself. In doing so the individual worlds lost a lot of their power and fell under the power of the Empire. So in a fictional world where the USA exists in the Star Wars universe there is a good chance they would be upset at losing power to an authoritarian Empire. The USA might even be the Alderaan that stood in opposition to the Empire and then gets destroyed. Think of it this way. Other world powers have done evil things. However those countries were rivals to the USA. Although the USA may do evil things they do not necessarily support the evil things of other countries because those evil things are against American interests. The Americans did not support the authoritarian elements of the Soviet Union despite those elements sharing things in common with the authoritarian elements of the USA. They did not support the Soviet Union because they were a rival. Very dumb post. If we are going to”historically” by your reasoning most people in general would support the Empire What country WOULDNT support the empire going by your qualifiers? China India France Germany Russia the UK Turkey…. All those countries have had slaver committed genocide and oppressed people throughout there history As a counterpoint the Galactic Empire lasted about 30 years. The Confederate States of America lasted 4. If youd said that Americans wouldve been tolerant and accepting of the last corrupt years of the Republic yea they would. Even if youd said that its likely that Americans would have voted to become an Empire rather than a democracy in the same circumstances youd have a leg to stand on. But when push comes to shove and the actual fascist government gets too obvious to ignore we do have a track record here. Maybe slow on the uptake but we get there in the end. What happens the day after the rebellion? The rebels have to actually fucking govern! The sequels were so bad because they couldn’t make three movies about setting up a functional government because people would fall asleep! Instead they just remade the original trilogy I.e. constant revolution. You think that the USA is evil and I say compared to what? honestly sure. but by your logic literally every single human on earth would support the galactic empire too. Europeans? Africans? Asians? all of them would support it. literally every single modern nation state has done awful shit. by compressing thousands of years of history into one generation and then making moral judgements on that group you are obfuscating actual societal problems. The question is so what? Is this unique to Americans or do we observe this in every society? I dont think its healthy to 331.4 million people because of the actions of their shitty government. I am also wildly disillusioned by the outcome of our last election but dont forget the billions of dollars that has gone into voter suppression including very notably the electoral college. I have to believe its not most of us. I agree its far too many though. [removed] [removed] The galactic empire was inspired by the US so yeah it tracks. The Galactic Empire wasn’t evil because of its actions not really. It was evil because it was necessary for the plot that the audience understand they are evil. The mainline movie series doesn’t really discuss the actions of the empire in nearly enough detail to make serious moral judgments. Now I’ll concede that I haven’t read much of the expanded universe writings and perhaps that offers more insight. But even then we’re talking about an empire encompassing at least trillions of citizens probably tens of trillions. At those scales there’s inevitably going to be dark spots and decisions that hurt people. You can’t not do that. You can still meaningfully choose between policies that hurt more vs less people but do the EU writings go into that level of detail? You tell me. Most of the you would have supported [evil action x] in [time period y] rely on somehow a Variant of you whos born in that time and place but still you this scenario relies on magical transportation meaning the us who gets transported would know whats gonna happen [removed] [removed] North Korea is doing the right thing by banning the internet for its citizens Author TooObsessedWithDPRKPost Text I know this sounds harsh and yeah I get the irony of posting this online. I use the internet every day and would personally hate to live without it. But looking at the bigger picture I genuinely think North Korea might have a point in banning it for their people. The internet has become incredibly addictive. People spend hours doomscrolling watching mindless content or getting lost in porn and games. It isolates us and kills realworld interaction. It also creates echo chambers where people get sucked into toxic ideologies or conspiracy theories and never see another perspective. It’s also made the world more dangerous online predators cyberbullying scams stalking trafficking etc. A lot of that simply wouldn’t exist or at least not to the same extent without the internet. Before all this people socialized more went outside and seemed generally happier. I’m not saying North Korea is a utopia far from it but on this one specific issue I think they might be doing something other countries should at least reflect on. I actually have a Chinese friend who studies in Pyongyang and she told me that she feels the lack of internet there seems to make life simpler and people seem happier I know this is anecdotal but I found it interesting. Change my view. The internet has become incredibly addictive. People spend hours doomscrolling watching mindless content or getting lost in porn and games. North Korea do have their own intranet that only the elites can access I doubt their social media is advanced enough yet to get people to be addicted. But their phones also comes with A LOT of western games pirated see . They can absolutely be addicted to mobile gaming under the circumstances. It also creates echo chambers where people get sucked into toxic ideologies or conspiracy theories and never see another perspective. I hope I dont have to tell you this is an insane thing to say about North Korea. It’s also made the world more dangerous online predators cyberbullying scams stalking trafficking etc. Its funny you mentioned this because North Korea is known to be a main actor in cybercrimes and several of the worst cyberattack in recent history are directly tired to the NK government. The irony in the second paragraph is palpable. The Internet is banned in NK to create an echo chamber. The Internet is banned in NK to reduce possible perspectives and promote a toxic ideology. So theres that. The third paragraph disregards history. There have always been scams. There have always been con artists. People have run a foul of the law for as long as there has been a legal system. Telephone scams long predate the Internet. Literal snake oil salesman is literally biblical. Weve had this issue for at least the last 4 millennium. Touch grass is common advise and people should take it more often but you can encourage that without deleting the Internet. No access to Wikipedia and Google Scholar the amount of knowledge let’s just say natural science and tech not social science/political barred from access is definitely not helping the economy. They didn’t ban it so people could get out more and be more social they ban it because if they did have the internet for everyone there would be riots and probably a coup Its very easy to look happy if not looking happy enough results in you and your family getting enslaved or murdered. You dont have to use the internet but you have a **choice** if you so feel like it. North Korea has **taken away the freedom to choose**. lol to make this claim and not even address that 99% of the motivation is to censor information from their citizens??? Are you serious? Lots of things humans enjoy are bad in excess Alcohol porn gambling hot baths massages doing sport prime rib bananas ice cream... Giving people access to the internet comes with a range of pros and cons. You have listed a convincing list of drawbacks to internet access without acknowledging any of the good sides. Overall I would have to say the good outweighs the bad in this case. Your Chinese friend think people lived happier in Pyongyang than in Shanghai or New York... I think thats a bit delusional... I share the sentiment that many sites / platforms have become so addictive that I wish for it to be regulated better and that the individual would be more conscious about this. We have allowed products akin to cocaine to be used by about everyone creating monopolies in the process. However I find your logic incredibly flawed. Measures like North Korea’s internet ban have isolated the population in a way that keeps them controlled in a horrific life and prevents revolution. It’s not to protect them from addiction or propaganda as they replace international products with their own propaganda. You sound like the end justifies any means but if they have aimed at a different end it’s ok too? Also banning the entire internet with all its good or useful sides is unnecessary radical. Banning marihuana outright because it can be addictive is good too even when it’s due to the alcohol companies’ agenda to push their product? Better ban coffee sugar and a bunch of other stuff too — that’s a perfect autocratic regime right there. That’s kind of what I’m thinking when you apply that logic elsewhere. Youre missing the forest for the trees. Are there upsides to not having Internet? Sure. Do those upsides offset the downsides? Not by a long shot. North Korea has poverty over 60% and food shortages with an estimated 45% of the population to be undernourished. Internet access could enable economic coordination and easily cut both of these numbers in half. How many people are you willing to see die in poverty to avoid people spending hours doomscrolling? If the answers not 0 you need to check your priorities. Surely those reasons dont justify such a broad ban they could very well just have banned most of social media or pornography or whatnot and kept much of the internet which is useful informative educational and so on. I dont see any justification to not allow citizens to self study mathematics or history online learn to play guitar access a book or a song or engage in important discussion on sociopolitical matters and organize as should be their right. ive heard that nort corea has a local internet like a nationwide lan only accessible to its citizens but chim iongul isnt banning internet access for a benevolent reason he is banning internet because citizens may get informed and retrieve information which are dangerous for the communist regime and its power. i dont think kim would give a shit about korean people given how poor they are. It also creates echo chambers where people get sucked into toxic ideologies or conspiracy theories and never see another perspective.” How would you describe the ideology of North Korea? You could just ban most social media platforms and you could get the same result. People dont doomsday scroll Wikipedia and if they do it doesnt have negative consequences. I mean but not of the positives would actually apply to North Korea. This is like saying that its good the chef didnt add too much salt when you were served insects... Im not sure im gonna change the view of a guy named However i do wonder are you really looking up to north korea as a model for other countries? What about the north korean functions make you say that they better the everyday lives of the average citizen? why are you using the internet right now? quickly get rid of your internet access youre better off without it... right? https//tenor.com/view/bootlickerbootlickerbluelivesmattergif22558166 [removed] Greta Thunberg and the rest of the crew that sailed with her on the Madleen to Gaza never had any intention of delivering aid to the starving people in Palestine. Instead it was all a publicity stunt to get gullible people to donate her fake cause”. Greta Thunberg is a sellout and just as much of a closeted Zionist as Bernie Sanders when it comes to supporting a free independent state of Palestine. She truly never had any intention of sailing past Israeli naval forces to deliver aid to starving Palestinians in Gaza. As a matter of fact the amount of aid that was on board the Madleen at the time that her and her crew were kidnapped” wasn’t even enough to feed no more than maybe 10 people at that. This latest stunt by her and crew was nothing more than performative and possibly even staged. The whole point of it was to entice gullible people into sending her monetary donations under the guise that she intends to use said donations towards her worthy cause”. Instead those donations will never be used to help anyone in need and will only help her pursue her own personal financial interests. Now she is sitting in Israel happily wining and dining with the Israeli government while they make her watch a video showing the atrocities that were committed by their enemies on October 7th — and then send her and the rest of her crew back in just a few days to their homelands with only a slap on the wrist. Why? Well as it turns out this actually works out as a great P.R. opportunity for the Israelis as they can show the rest of western world that they are not as evil as the Palestinians have been shown them to be by not harming Greta and crew. In the end Zionists win again and what little hope that the starving people of Gaza has faded even more. Great job everyone. 🙄 Now she is sitting in Israel happily wining and dining with the Israeli government while they make her watch a video showing the atrocities that were committed by their enemies on October 7th — and then send her and the rest of her crew back in just a few days to their homelands with only a slap on the wrist. Why? This seems pretty easy to verify. I have a hard time believing it because lack of evidence is not proof of anything. But if you could provide some evidence that shes doing this now *or* that shes done something like this before then sure Ill believe you. Why *exactly* do you think this was a scam instead of just an illconceived but earnest attempt to help? You say things like this nothing more than performative and possibly even staged And to that I say... well *yeah*. Of course it was performative and of course it was staged. Any act of public advocacy is always both. But they are both performative and staged in service to a larger goal. The larger goal of this performative and staged mission was to draw wider attention to the blockade. They knew there was a high likelihood that it would not succeed but they did it anyway as being stopped would serve their larger goal. If they had not been stopped then they may have helped some people. Not many but some and some is better than none. So my question is again why **exactly** do you think this was a scam? What evidence is there that this is a scam? What scams have been proven to have been run by members of this group in the past? a great P.R. opportunity for the Israelis as they can show the rest of western world that they are not as evil as the Palestinians have been shown them to be by not harming Greta and crew. You do realize this is an absurdly low bar right? Look world we *didnt* immediately kill the group of people trying to bring aid!!! Arent we awesome? Please. They still look like shit for stopping even the most modest delivery of aid. This is not a PR win. This has to be the most unhinged thing ever. So Greta Thunberg has publicly been posting in favor of Palestine for months and years as part of an undercover Israeli conspiracy so that when the right time comes she sets sail to the levant and gets captured and then exposes how truly evil Hamas is? do you have any evidence to support this claim or is this just what you decided is happening based on your own personal biases Which is more plausible ... the Jews embedded Greta Thunberg as a proPalestine protestor like 5 years ago so that they could divert her yacht full of supplies to Ashdod fail to horribly overpunish her for a pretty negligible crime and thereby get the crazy PR win of not looking like huge douchebags... ... or a kinda outoftouch TikTok influencer loaded a yacht with half a truckload for the primary purpose of being arrested by Israel in an attempt to point out that Israel continues to maintain a naval blockade which conveniently gets her own face all over the news again and thereby keeps her relevant? There was a boat that went out before Gretas. It was bombed ~~people died~~ and supplies were wasted. Yes this is a publicity stunt to bring awareness to that boat and other aid thats being stopped and to get the governments involved in stopping the war crimes Israel is committing. I really dont get the hate for Greta. Yes shes over the top but her intentions are good. Whether its a publicity stunt or not shes bringing awareness to war crimes encouraging other people to get involved in stopping the war on Gaza. She focuses on trying to improve the environment so the planet can be sustainable and livable in the future. Is she annoying? To some. But her causes are wellintentioned. Your view relies on someone who isnt in this subreddit to speak for themselves being dishonest to a degree that would need some very compelling evidence to reasonably believe youve offered none only conjecture. What view do you want to hold and how do you think we will get to that point in this sub? What kind of discussion are you hoping to have and what kind of comment will you assign deltas to? Why would Greta Thunberg and Bernie Sanders be secretly Zionist when you can just be openly Zionist and make more money and get more fame that way? Zionist Greta could be doing the conservative podcast circuit right now talking about how she broke from the left on this issue. She could be speaking at Israeli events and probably even get personal attention from Netanyahu. On this boat theres a lot of people including francopalestinian euro deputy Rima Hassan whom always defended palestinian people and accused Israel of war crimes. How do you think the israel dictatorship will treat her ? The truth is you cannot read the mind of people right. but when people are publicly fighting for a cause chances are they always believe in the cause. Fighting is tirering sanity eating time consuming. People dont engage in that just to deceive other people. Is your argument that Greta Thunberg is secretly acting in support of the Israeli government or that her actions inadvertently led to a PR win for the Israeli government? OK can someone remind the orderly that its time to return OP to the asylum? Greta Thunberg and the rest of the crew that sailed with her on the Madleen to Gaza never had any intention of delivering aid to the starving people in Palestine. Instead it was all a publicity stunt to get gullible people to donate her fake cause” Likely true Greta Thunberg is a sellout and just as much of a closeted Zionist And other text beyond name of post... really? Why are you making this stupid conspiracy theories when there are at least 2 possible obvious explanations elso same with zionists agent Sandres 1. You made it yourself its publicity stunt to get gullible people to donate her fake cause. She cares about attention/money/popularity and sees it as easy way to farm it. Israeli are not idiots and just in response defending their image and trying to make her look stupid Its not that hard since plenty of people already think it and not without a reason. Why wouldnt they arrest them least violent way possible and then just deport out making them spoiled clowns is much better then allowing them play victims no deals needed. 2. She really is typical dumb propal activist and really think that she is doing good case by bringing attention buy hear stunt and that her action harmed Israels image. I mean people who already hate Israel obviously thinks that Israel in this story is wrong one and looks terrible buy holding 12 peace activists hostages and its majority of people around her both physically and virtually. Israels actions explained same you dont need to have conspiracy with delusional person to make her look stupid you just need to have a bit of a brain yourself. Thunberg was not the only person on the boat. Do you believe that all of these people are secretly working with the Israeli government? * Baptiste Andre FRA * Suayb Ordu TUR * Mark van Rennes NED * Omar Faiad FRA An Al Jazeera journalist * Pascal Maurieras FRA Arrested in 2018 by Israeli authorities for similar activism * Reva Viard FRA * Rima Hassan FRA Of Palestinian origin she is a Member of the European Parliament * Sergio Toribio SPA A member of Sea Shepherd an environmental activist group and sailor * Thiago Avila BRA * Yanis Mhamdi FRA A journalist for BLAST a French independent media outlet * Yasemin Acar GER Of Kurdish descent Your view seems to depend on the idea that Thunberg has at the very least behaved in an incredibly cynical and dishonest way for many years. What evidence do you have of this? I think a case could be made that Thunberg was very unlikely to be allowed to reach Gaza and probably didnt fully expect to get there. Even so your view still seems like a real stretch. If the mission was primarily a PR stunt it still seems more likely that it would be a PR stunt designed to shame Israel and draw sympathy to Palestine. I cant really work out what supports the proIsraeli conspiracy angle outside of an intense desire to think ill of Israel and Thunberg simultaneously. The whole point of it was to entice gullible people into sending her monetary donations under the guise that she intends to use said donations towards her worthy cause”. Instead those donations will never be used to help anyone in need and will only help her pursue her own personal financial interests. I dont think she is misleading her donors. She is a media personality who castigates people for climate change and now this. Some people think thats important for some reason. Well it shows at least that Israel actively stops humanitarian workers from delivering aid. First off why did Greta Thunberg and Rima Hassan communicated a maximum about it? This is a protection. When in 2010 the Gaza Freedom Flotilla tried to go silently they got violently attacked on completely ridiculous claims like that kitchen knives were weapons and nine humanitarian workers got killed. The fact that they are celebrities protects all of the other members of the crew. The same organization tried months before with a bigger boat but it also got bombed although no one died. It is much harder to not kill of the members of the crew with a bomb. Its part of a bigger plan of sending more and more boats that I dont know if it will really work but at least they are trying something. They were the one who contacted Thunberg and Hassan and the other crew members not the other way around. How dumb one needs to be to think oh the Israelis threatened to kill and rape them for years but they didn’t do it on camera and ended up only kidnapping them illegally like pirates they must be the good guy!? Why cant it both be the case that she was intending to deliver a small amount of aid *and* she was doing a publicity stunt to raise awareness and get donations to put towards further aid? And what reason do you have to suspect that the donations will be spent fraudulently? Gretas parents are hella rich. She doesnt need your donations. She may not be helping but shes certainly not doing this to steal your donations. What are you on nothing that you have said has any proof you are basically sharing fanfiction and hoping people fight with you on it. Is this even an opinion? This was a publicity stunt. Obviously. Do you think Greta Thunberg has access to a magical stealth boat that can make it past Israels blockade of Gaza? There was never any realistic chance of her delivering aid the entire endeavour was to put herself in harms way and use her celebrity to draw attention to the ongoing war crimes in Gaza including blocking aid from coming in to help bring international pressure on Israel. This was done to draw attention to the Palestinian cause not because she doesnt believe in it. There is not any personal charity or the like that she is using to solicit donations so the claims she is trying to embezzle aid money dont seem based in anything. Holy cow... Can you include links that support all... whatever this is? It would be helpful. They had a very little AID to deliver if they wanted to deliver AID there are other options to do it. So it was a massive PR event Im not sure Greta even understands what is she doing maybe she even being manipulated. But the people who behind this PR event are professionals. They streamed 24 hours daily they know how to keep their online high for example We have drones over our heads Submarines are near us and other nonsense that was on the streams. The videos We are kidnaped was prepared long time before IDF took over the boat. [removed] [removed] Her point was to show the Israeli government commitment a crime. She succeeded. She is showing that the Israeli government is a barbaric war crime committing shit show who will break the law to stop even an ounce of aid going into gaza [removed] [removed] [removed] [removed] RPGs and games today are too sanitized I am a big fan of RPGs and started playing the genre in the 90s but IMO the golden age were the 2000s. For reference my favorite RPGs are Mass effect trilogy Dragon age Origins Fallout series up to New Vegas the 4th is really boring imo **What was great to me about those games?** You could make choices that were not socially ok you could be evil good neutral whatever your choice I played so many times these games doing different actions and making different characters having fun and really memorable moments. **I bet something as simple today like Shepard punching the reporter would be scandalous in most RPGs.** Looking at the newer releases besides Baldurs Gate 3 being an exception All I see are disney style RPGs without personality forcing you to be a perfect Captain America style of character full of virtue and never doing anything out of scrip. Main example that I can name is Dragon age Veilguard which I finished only out of curiosity for the story but is an incredibly shallow game. **TLDR** Modern RPGs are shallow and on rails do not feel like RPGs anymore because they are sanitized for all audiences and do not want to risk offending anyone. **UPDATE** I have CMV on the topic on the basis that nostalgia for some of the games that I played growing up may be influencing the way i perceive them which is a totally valid point. When it comes to the argument that now games take more time or companies now focus on money well yes I know that and I get it. Yet I would love the few NEW RPGs that get out there to be on the level of depth of the old school ones Like BG3 did or Cyberpunk to some extent. Thanks everyone who shared their opinion in a civil manner! Gamedev Here. Its not about Sanatising. Its simply a optimization loop. All statistics say its a tiny little amount of people that play the renegade paths and make these choices. Creating a lot of content that most people never sees is to expensive. This sadly creates a loop where less people play it less such content is created so even less people play such content. I think you’re just in the wrong genre of RPGs. ARPGs Veilguard is in this genre are generally going to have less choices and less ability to bullshit because that’s not in the genre standard. I highly recommend jumping to CRPGs where scope of choice is a large part of the genre standard. You mentioned BG3 already but the entire genre is full of peak games with amazing decision making scope. BG3’s scope of choice is actually much smaller than other CRPGs. Disco Elysium Pathfinder Wrath of the Righteous this one has the widest morality scale and scope of choice IMO Pillars of Eternity 12 and others all have what you’re looking for. Now that said if you want a different type of RPG where choices are a slower build and limited but matter *more* as you go through the plot try Expedition 33. Okay lets go over some recent RPGs Persona 5 Dark themes so not Disney but your choices are pretty narrow but thats consistent with the series. Also there are some punch the reporter level options but thats about as far it as it goes. Yakuza like a dragon Dark themes again but again you dont really have real bad guy options but again certainly punch reporter level stuff. Kingdom come 2 Yeah you can murder people out of the blue in this one... Dragons Dogma 2 Again you can murder people out of the blue in this one. Cyberpunk Yet again you can murder people out of the blue in this one... Claire expedition 33 Dark themes but not much in the choice category your typical save the world jrpg but with somewhat darker themes. So yeah no idea what you are talking about. Most are pretty dark and many of them are sandboxes that allow you to be a real asshole. The only thing thye are missing from dragon age origins and Mass effect I guess is a more structured evil path but that kind of went away with morality systems. I feel like there are lots of games that directly refute your point. The biggest RPGs that Ive played over the past few years are probably Cyberpunk 2077 and BG3. You yourself concede that BG3 is an exception to your perceived trend but I think CP2077 is an even bigger one. That game is absolutely NOT sanitized. Anywhere you go in night city you will be plastered with gore and sex on billboards and TV ads. The whole theme of the game is incredibly depressing and directly critiques the capitalist system the game was created within which isnt exactly PC. In the first mission you are tasked with saving someone from scavengers who are literally chopping people apart to harvest organs and cyberware. And then there are villains like Gottfried and his son IYKYK. And to top it all of it asks the player to engage with and maybe even befriend a literal terrorist who killed tens of thousands of innocents in their failed rebellion against the system. And this game while it had a terrible launch on consoles has become recognized as a modern classic. While the Witcher series isnt quite as bleak and gnarly as Cyberpunk its still pretty grey in terms of its tone and the choices it forces the player to make. The way it portrays the elven resistance in the second game is one thing that comes to mind but its been a while since I played them. And the Witcher 3 is also regarded as one of the greats of modern RPGs. I think the mass effect reporter punch is extremely tame compared to some of this. I think you are overstating the amount of morality present in those older games and imo there was often very little subtlety. A bit exaggerated but a representative choice would be like You have just slain the dragon and looted its hoard. You reach the nearby town of bumblesticks and a group of starving street children approach ypu. Do you A. Give them the hard won treasure you just claimed allowing them a shot at life 🥹 B. Call fire upon their sniveling bodies claim the local tavern as your own and display their charred little bones as a warning against any who would annoy you. I know you hand waved away BG3 but that is one of the best selling RPGs of the past decade and its choices are deep engaging and nuanced. Dragon Age Origins similarly had great decisions and was a relatively recent game. In fact I would argue that BG3 far outstrips those older black/white choices so ypu are sort of saying excluding the best recent example or maybe best example of all time you don’t get to make choices!” The Mass Effect Trilogy is famously shallow. During the third game it was literally a controversy that the choices didn’t matter in the end and even after being fixed” the game still only has 3 real endings and a couple of tacked on afterthoughts. Meanwhile you have games like Rogue Trader where you literally have deeply immoral options like enslaving thousand of people letting a torture alien rove your ship ally with hell and many more. There is also Baulder’s Gate which literally has a murderhobo option. And same with Age of Wonders 4 where you have many flavors of evil to chose from. I feel you are just not engaging with games like you used to. What are your examples of sanitised games other than Veilguard? Youve names exactly one sanitised game. Bg3 Rogue Trader Disco Elysium Outer Worlds Avowed these all let you do some degree of unpleasantness. This is very much a nostalgia thing. Plenty of games out there are giving you the choices that you want. As previously noted BG3 and Cyberpunk. But also Fallout 4 contains an abundance of morally gray choices. Far more immediately impactful than anything you’d see prior. Hell even Veilguard actively has a choice where you can knock someone out to get them out of your way. The imsim” genre is very much out of fad recently but to say that games these days are sanitized or Disney level is just factually incorrect. I would recommend Tainted Grail for your next game. Seems right up your alley. I think this is overblown because of a few big examples like Veilguard. And bioware have been declining for years. What other big examples are there really? Starfield. Cant think of any more. You mentioned Bg3 but weve had Rogue Trader Cyberpunk 2077 Avowed while its not getting much love its got plenty of moral greyness Outer Worlds 2 is out soon if its like the original then itll be comical in tone but hiding a lot of dark stuff Tainted Grail Avalon is apparently quite dark. There are several RPGS from the last half decade with evil/neutral choices what are you on about? Baldurs Gate 3 lets you raze a druid grove Wrath of the Righteous lets you basically lobotomize an elf party member Outer Worlds lets you become a corporate shill Elden Ring has evil questlines... Do these not count? Have you tried Rogue Trader by Owlcat? It’s in the Warhammer 40k universe so it’s grimdark by its very nature gets around a lot of today’s sanitization by being satire. For instance one of your possible companions is a Dark Eldar which if you don’t know 40k are pure evil like hardcore slavery and torture evil. You can do whatever you want as a player character. The traditionally ‘good’ path following the Imperium makes you a fascist religious zealot that purges people so it isn’t exactly your average 2025 rodeo. removing woke from games WONT make them better. paying game devs more WILL make games better. game dev is the lowest paid cs position for awhile now.... THIS AND ONLY THIS is the reason games are bad. the good cs engis have left for higher paying positions a long time ago and they will never come back until its worth it. so again the only politics that will make games better is ecopol not woke/antiwoke. its a contrived culture war that has only served to push gamers towards gacha titty games. ...In Baldurs gate 3 you can kill every ally and fuck a bear. And you think punching a reporter would be scandalous? This is entirely a you problem. Or course My first instinct is that these games are stopping you from making some really specific evil decisions that they didnt always used to. Was it the punching the reporter youre upset you might not be able to do anymore...or was it being openly xenophobic and going the humanity first route? Have you played the game called Tyranny ? sanitized is not the right word Id say less trauma inducing. If you ever had grandparents that would yell at you to turn off the tv or change the channel once they see violence you may have wonder why they act that way and theres actually a pretty good reason behind it. They witnessed distressing images either on TV or real life when they were still kids which left a mark on them. Naturally fleeing or freezing to these kinds of images as adults would make them look as wimps so they had no choice but learn to fight them. More often than not theyll rely on religious narratives to validate their childhood trauma. cyber punk and BG3 are good examples against this. Try Obsidian’s game *Tyranny* it’s one of the better and weightier considerations of choice within a moral landscape darker than the Mariana Trench. Imagine a setting where a dictator’s moods and proclamations had power over the natural world and could wither crops stop winds or bring about endless night. Imagine you were a legal functionary for that dictator. Few shades of grey here you’re mostly choosing between different kinds of darkness. Being anything like good is appropriately difficult. Have you played bannerlord or warband 2? Which games do this? You havent named one example or suggested what they should have done instead or why. rpgs nor are games sanitized. simply things change. what might have been allowed in the 90s in a comedy is not really allowed in the modern age as an example gay being used as a punchline. thats not sanitization thats just simply standards changing. The two most recent RPGs I played are Yakuza Infinite Wealth and Persona 5. There are many morally and ethically questionable decisions you can make. I dont have data or articles to link so Im just being presumptuous I dont think most people want to partake in questionable behavior just because it is questionable. Most people dont enjoy that edginess because its upsetting to people with empathy. It may not be an explicit observation one has but this response is very common. Witcher 3 is a good example of this. Being a villain is not always the most beneficial route to engage with the world. There are realistic benefits to helping people the same as in real life. When youre an asshole it sucks to find out no one is there to help or guide you in the future. Edit Since it looks like OP is done responding to posts here. After reading the comments it seems OP providing their definition of an RPG would be useful. It seems like a lot of discussion is circling about which games are more or less an RPG. Its such a broad scope. It seems like OP is asking others to change their perspective on how brutish an action has to be to be considered evil. Or how an action fundamentally conveys meaning or depth in a narrative. My original response doesnt address what I think they are asking to be swayed on. Its too abstract to address without a more concise view theyre wishing to be changed. I dont agree. Theres always been both types of games. I also think you need to only be looking at a very narrow slice of games being produced to say theyre all woke. Something you really need to consider is that there arent simply less nonwoke Rpgs there are simply less RPGs period. Tastes change and different genres get made. But if I look at the great expanse of AA and indie games getting produced none of them strike me as particularly sanitised and if they are its for genre related reasons. The only egregiously woke RPG game released recently was Veilguard and it flopped. Where are all the other sanitised RPGs were referring to? I think MMO has replaced the evil or bad guy play through. And its worse because they are treating fellow humans that way. Triple As are tending this way because they cost so much to produce but even then some can be pretty dark or give you morally ambiguous choices Witcher 3 being a good example. Do you just want the freedom to do weird stuff? Would you consider games that arent strictly RPGs but have RPG elements? Consider Disco Elysium text heavy oldskool point and click that lets be an alchie fascist amongst a lot of other weird choices Crusader Kings 3 is a map painting game with RPG elements like civ but you control the head of a dynasty over many generations. If you want to you can eat the pope incest multiple generations of your own family eunuch people you dont like systematically wipe out religions you dont like... Rimworld is a scifi survival / base builder. You could play nice or you could kidnap your neighbours keep some as slaves and harvest some others for parts. Away from triple As / expensive action RPGs games are much more varied and...better games than 15 years ago But yeah generally theres only maybe 1 new / good triple A game every couple of years. And many more that are marketed as such but are really just tedious clones... Have you tried Avowed? You can be pretty dang evil in it. [deleted] I think part of the issue here is that youre describing the biggest AAA RPG games that have ever been made which as u/iceandstorm points out trend towards broader markets. Big games have to recoup big expenses after all. And this trend isnt just about sanitized stories big projects probably are more riskaverse in general in all ways. The series you mention by name are Fallout Dragon Age and Mass Effect but those game series havent been criticized *just* for sanitizing moral choice. Over time theyve been criticized for simplifying just about every mechanic. Combat story characters all have been accused of becoming onedimensional in those series. As a fan of all of them I can attest that over time those series *did* get less complex in many ways in favor of bloating the number of features base building etc or making combat more modern ex Mass Effect combat got more intense and dynamic but the skill trees for combat became much less complex with each game. This may just be the fate of big RPGs. If you want some complexity maybe look at smaller projects as well? From a a few games that might appeal are Disco Elysium Tyranny or Undertale. Undertale has a genocide route. How many games have a genocide route? I think the CRPG space has a lot more of this than you realize but youre asking for AAA games and frankly there is only one AAA CRPG so youre dismissing it as an anomaly. The biggest CRPGs outside of Baldurs Gate all have deep immersive and morally gray choices available. I highly recommend Owlcat games if this is what youre looking for. As previously said by a game dev AAA games are spending AAA figures on many aspects. Unless the game has a completely ridiculous budget like GTA or Red Dead Redemption theyre going to focus their funds on the aspects that people are going to play. Ultimately the morally gray choices just dont sell as well as giving people a power fantasy where they can fully save the day. It has nothing to do with sanitization and everything to do with selling the things people will buy. The current morally gray market is being satisfied with CRPGs and indie games. The fact that this market is running strong but not conquering the market suggests weve hit an equilibrium. I feel your pain. I also prefer a darker villainous take on the games I play. I find it really frustrating when the scope to do that is limited or nonexistent. I always try to role play RPG games as Clarence Boddiker the villain in the original Robocop movie. When faced with a moral choice the answer is always what would Clarence do. There are some interesting takes in this thread and the cost implications of developing content most wont see does make sense. Its still annoying though. I think its a self fulfilling prophecy as I think a lot of people take the good guy options because were primed to believe thats the way to beat the game. [TLDR With the demands for games constantly rising most companies can’t go as deep with RP as we may want. Whether it comes from their contrasting vision for the game time/budget issues or the occasional idiocy there is gonna be a tradeoff somewhere. Evil/Renegade type stuff is simply an easier” cut since it’s usually only a minority of players utilizing them] I feel like your perception is highly skewed by current other big” names going out. Beyond that you have to consider that games are big business now it’s not just devs going hey wouldn’t it be cool if. Every little bit of code every possible action takes a shitload of time to program animate possibly voice etc so sadly spending time on something that statistically fewer players interact with is becoming rarer simply due to cost and efficiency. You could have the best pizza in the world but if it takes over 2 hours to cook and 2/3rds of your customers aren’t touching it due to a certain ingredient you added then it’s not a viable option anymore. Sometimes it’s a company deciding what they think is best for a game for better or worse. Sometimes it’s as simple as if we want this we’ll have to push release back a few months/years” and decide it’s not worth the delays and yes sometimes but not always it’s the company being up their own ass looking at you Veilguard Ironically adding more branching ideas narrows the devs own options. To use FO4 as an example the lesser RP options came due to their desire to have a voiced Protag. Adding a huge list of options would’ve taken MUCH longer to implement resulting in higher costs and longer development time. Sure many people didn’t want that but it’s an example of where a tradeoff needed to happen for the sake of something else in this case a voice and undeniably smoother gameplay. Then Mass Effect sure you could be a cool fully voiced renegade or hero but regardless of anything you’re still following the same general story path. NV lets you mishmash with all sorts of factions and morality but it’s still a buggy mess and your RP mostly just affects your ending slideshow. DA Origins is one of my all time favorites but if it released in its current state as a new game” today it wouldn’t make the cut for a *multitude* of reasons. BG3 is a great RPG that went the extra mile in numerous ways but took way longer to develop by comparison and doesn’t have the same safety net” as other games. Company’s gotta make money too so higher demands mean there’s gotta be a line drawn somewhere. Unfortunately most games’ renegade/evil type options are only utilized by a relative minority of players so naturally it has to get the axe in SOME games but not all. A game with numerous options either needs to cut back somewhere else to make deadlines or it needs to be in development for longer which isn’t always viable for them. Does it suck sometimes? Sure but we can’t just broadly say everything’s being sanitized”. And more of a side thing but sometimes if you wanna play a game with more nuanced ideas and character development it might be better to occasionally play a game *without* a choice based narrative since it allows the writers to fully tell the story they wanna tell. Yakuza Trails etc. There’s a CRPG from like 2019 or so that’s been sitting in my library forever called Tyranny”. It’s a typical fantasy setting except evil has already won. Your player character is a member of the newly victorious evil government and all you really can do is steer which evil faction ends with more power. They’re all evil and you dont generally do anything good. Damn I should go back and finish it New vegas will always be the one I look to for realistic story beats. Flat out stated sexual predator characters cook cook their victims with realistic Depictions of trauma child predators cannibalism slavery genuinely no good options sometimes only less bad ones. I like it Honestly I feel like rpgs are getting better now. For example in fallout 3 if you are not a good character you are incentivized to nuke a town. I like playing morally grey characters but not out of the way sociopaths. Like killing a couple npcs who annoying or doing the the ethically morally wrong option” but it doesn’t mean I want to nuke children. But the game incentivizes bad or good karma but not neutral karma. The end result is to play an optimal character you are either good or more evil than Hitler. I tried to play evil but I couldn’t play after a few hours because the choices were so evil that it was hard to play even as a video game. Knights of the old republic was similar. In this case for a balancing perspective I have to make my character weaker or just not play evil. I enjoy games where morality is not black and white with alignment. Let me do a few minor bad things but not commit genocide or murder children. Bioshock was the same way. Murder children for the whole game even once make me uncomfortable. Overall I feel like games are getting better about choices and the decisions we make are not black and white. I rather have HBO sopranos morality system with antihero’s rather than just being a villain. Tony soprano is a gangster and a bad guy but he is likable. Most of the choices in 2000s rpgs are not likable and feel like a nihilistic teenager trying to be edgy. cyber punk and BG3 are good examples against this. There are so many AA and indie RPGs that are not following the same trends that AAAs are following. Most likely you have very narrow view on what RPGs are currently available on market. RPGs should allow for freedom and let people see the true primal nature of humanity for better or worse. As someone who favors big RPGs Id argue that rather than being sanitized you just dont see games to this degree all that often. Whenever I search for similar games to play to discover something new Im recommended the same exact titles I already love. Basically there arent a ton. Narrative driven games with impactful choices geared towards adults take a lot of time creativity resources and effort to make. Dragon Age IV fell off in an attempt to just get the product out and appeal to a new generation I feel like but Cyberpunk and BG3 are exactly what you describe and are new games. Dude that is because you only seem to play the most hyped and mainstream games... Just look at 40k Rogue Trader it is so dark and there is so much evil you can do that no old game compares... Hell just see Marazhai romance on YT it is so fucking evil and disturbing Drukhari find murder and torture a great foreplay that it is genuinely uncomfortable and it is so lore accurate for Drukhari Try spellforce 3 Im having a lot of fun with it. Agreed. Thats what happened to Bioshock Infinite. And sadly it worked. The Bioshock franchise is the perfect example of this change. Ive always felt this way for many years. Haaaaave you played Kingdom Come Deliverance 1/2 From soft games are almost all completely open ended allowing the player to choose who to trust and who to kill among the very few people you meet in the stories. Elden ring’s endings vary wildly between each one. You can even bring an end to everything OP you can straight up commit warcrimes and human rights violations along with a smidge of genocide in games like Stellaris and Rimworld. The witcher cyberpunk etc let you make absolutly henious choices. Im not fillowing your point OP. You have never played Baldurs gate 3 You can commit genocide murder children become then champion of the god of death and fill the world with torture and blood have sex with a bear and so many more. It is much less sanitized than all the ROG games I played growing up Lol. Lmao even. Have you played Disco Elysium Hylics or Fear and Hunger? There are more RPGs than ever before so there are more diverse RPGs. Youre only aware of the sanitized RPGs but the really weird ones are out there if you look. Look for games that provide the experience you are looking for. The time it took you to make this post you could have found like 3 that I’m thinking of off the top of my head. This is a I played veilgaurd and I’m annoyed” post Play Rogue Trader and Enderal. This is why I think hentai games with plot are more interesting than most games nowadays. The hentai forces the game to not be sanitized. You dont even need to play for the hentai. [removed] OP picks one of a few examples to fit his view and ignores everything else that has been released. Hundred Line Rogue Trader Wrath of the Righteous among others. Corporations try to appeal to the widest audience possible which means things need to be sanitized. If you want games that aren‘t you need to look outside AAA If you want to play as evil character try Banishers Ghosts of New Eden Slay the Princess Avowed. All these give you option to play as evil character. lol try owl cats 40K RPG Rogue trader” It’s harder to be good” than evil in that game and the good” choices often have consequences Might be more of an exposure issue. Cyberpunk 2077 rogue trader etc alll recent rpgs with moral choices and the ability to do immoral choices. Thats just something not common. RPGs change over time. So one game I recommend is baldur gate which is like a DND game but in a video game. Look for them outside of USA AAA. E.g. Pathfinder games have a very wide spectrum of choices. You should listen to DorkSpawn they talk about this a lot in their veilguard playthrough Kenshi would like a word with you. Before it kills you. Again and again and again. [removed] mods only allow popular opinions here. change this subs name to r/agreewithme All the choices in games are just the choice between two rails. Rogue trader would like to have a talk with you You dont need a USB security key if youre just using MFA for social media banking and email. TOTP and fallback codes are enough. So heres where Im at. I keep seeing people online highly recommending YubiKeys and similar hardware keys for security and while I get the appeal I’m honestly not convinced they’re necessary for your average person just using MFA to log into places like Reddit online banking email and the like. I use a TOTP app on my phone I’ve got backup codes stored safely offline and I don’t have any industry compliance requirements hanging over my head. From my point of view that setup seems solid enough. It’s already a massive upgrade over just a password even if you’re using a password manager and making sure all your logins are unique and strong. Ive got to say that I’m totally against SMS twofactor authentication. I know its not secure because SIM swapping is a thing. So for me Ill only use SMS 2FA if a service has no other second authentication factor on offer. SMS 2FA is better than no 2FA. So Im not talking about just any second authentication factor here but only TOTP generated by Authy/Google Authenticator and the like. Im pretty comfortable with TOTP on the phone so what am I missing here? What’s the realworld risk that a hardware key would mitigate that a TOTP setup wouldn’t *specifically* for someone like me? Simple TOTP only works while your phone works. Phones dead? No TOTP. You can make the same argument for Hardware keys like if they break. But theyre both serving the same MFA purpose to be Something you Have. For you specifically this probably isnt an issue. But for people that have to say wipe their phones periodically for security like going through a border security keys are Great. Your title and post are different. Title says a person does not need such a device but in the body you refer to the average person not needing such a device. Which is it? If it is the latter I am inclined to agree with you. If the former then no. Even with the latter of the average person a security key can still be more convenient than opening your phone. If it is the former I dont have a phone. What should I do? I guess I could save the TOTPs on my computer. You have a very odd threat model. You are concerned about SIM swapping and use this to say that SMS based 2FA is bad. SIM swapping is real but rare. Phishing is *vastly* more common. SMS and TOTP based 2FA behave exactly the same way against phishing. In comparison a yubikey cannot be phished. You are concerned about a rare threat and seemingly unconcerned about a common threat. Why is that? Security advice is at its core given with the assumption that the user is always going to be the weakest link in any chain. Thus the advice will always lean towards something thats more difficult for a stupid user to mess up. And to that end a USB security key is the authentication method least at risk of a user creating a vulnerability. Sure an appbased authenticator may be sufficient for some people but theres just as many idiots who will give away their 2fa codes in simple social engineering or phishing attacks. So a USB key is the next logical step. It requires that the user be physically located and interacting with the device theyre trying to log on with. No amount of fake web pages or phone calls from totally real legit tech support can retrieve the users USB key. Its a strict upgrade in that sense Of course for your personal use simply relying on your brain may be enough. But without knowing you thats something I cant say and thus wouldnt rely on when giving advice. Forcing someone to accept your sexuality is hypocritical Author PhatYakkaPost Text I want to start off by saying in no way do I hate/not care about the LQBTQIA+ community. I guess there is many layers to this. But at the forefront it is to my understanding that we as a society are able to think feel and judge how we please. I do think though that it is hypocritical for the left side to force the right side to change and neglect their views. Using words like bigot homophobic and other variances is similarly adjacent to the extreme rights use of antiqueer slurs. However there needs to be an understanding in society that not everyone agrees and sometimes you just need to accept that. With the left constantly fighting for the right to accept them I find there tactics odly similar to what they are fighting against. Belief. Everyone has there own beliefs. The left has their community. The right has theres. There is a community as well of somewhere in between. If we as a society can accept that not everyone is going to agree on one topic ever we will be much happier for it. I do think society has come a long way in how progressive we are but are we getting so progressive that we are at risk of the pendulum being swung too far? This isnt to say that someone may take it to the next level by inflicting violence. Whether that is verbal. emotional or physical. By to agree to disagree. Thats how we solve this crazy world. TLDR Is it hypocritical for the left to supress the rights views and perspectives when thats what they have been fighting for? \*\*\*EDIT TLDR \*\*\*\*\*\* Fighting for the right to accept them” bro I think we’re just trying to convince the right that they’re…well…just people? but are we getting so progressive that we are at risk of the pendulum being swung too far? Genuinely curious how you can look at whats going on in the world today and still think were in danger of getting TOO progressive. And what does this mean even? The pendulum swinging too far? The pendulum of... acceptance??? Some people make it their identity but at the end of the day most gay people didnt choose to be gay. Its like if a group thought having blonde hair was morally wrong. If your baby was born with blonde hair would it be morally right to cast them out of your community? Or force them to dye it and make sure the roots never show. Maybe the kid dyes it themselves so they dont get bullied or excluded or passed over for jobs. Does that make sense? Should we also just be okay with the beliefs of racists? How about sexists? Destroying hateful beliefs is how we try to progress society. Tolerance of intolerance does not work if you want social harmony or social progress. What does it mean to not agree with someone being gay? What does that actually look like? The left fights for the right of LGBTQ+ people to exist and have equal rights that’s what you’re actually saying people don’t have to accept and that is bigotry. If you don’t understand that you need to accept other people with different views and sexualities exist and live around you and work with you and teach your kids and have every right you do then you’re not fit to live in a society. It is irrational and illogical to think your religion or personal religious beliefs should have any say whatsoever over the right to existence and civil liberties of other people. Keep that shit to yourself it’s no one’s business but your own. The problem is that allowing intolerance means we have to say yes you are allowed to want these people to die horribly and painfully. We have chosen not to do anything about the hate and violence you feel toward people who are different than you. Thats why the Tolerance Paradox exists we want a tolerant society but tolerating intolerance is a slippery slope to violence and hate crimes. You cant allow hateful ideologies to foster because people WILL act on them and then youre what? Saying we cant do anything about assault and murder because we have to tolerate their hate? I know you said its not to encourage violence but violence WILL follow. Weve seen how hateful people act when they feel like their views are the mainstream. Its not hypocritical at all. I have the belief and I would say this is fairly common that different things should be treated differently. So for example if someone murders dozens of people I would say No thats bad. Watch as my finger wags at you. If that same person were to instead rescue dozens of people from a hurricane I would say Good show. Im a fan of your efforts. Is this hypocrisy? I would say not. In the exact same way my reaction to someone being gay is literally nothing because its morally neutral. My reaction to someone being a bigot who stands in the way of a minority groups rights despite that minority not behaving immorally is again some stern finger wagging at the least. I would describe all of this as almost excessively normal. Normal and nonhypocritical to the point that its honestly kinda boring. If you are so big into agree to disagree why dont you just simply agree to disagree with the positions and actions you call leftist instead of trying to change them? I find YOUR tactics oddly similar to what you are fighting against. Well what you’re doing is forcing someone to accept your views on someone else’s sexuality. It seems to be much the same thing you think others are doing. I think what youre trying to say is that acceptance breeds acceptance... and that is hypocritical for people who want to be accepted to not accept other points of view. The problem is when one side wants to legislate someone elses personal business or take away someones basic human dignity just for the sake of controlling others. Example Say Im a ginger and you believe Im gross and sick and might even start a gingervitis outbreak where it becomes trendy for other people to have light skin and freckles. Maybe you dont understand why I have to push my ginger agenda by always wearing sunscreen and UVprotective clothing. Maybe you even worry Ill convince your kids they need sunscreen too despite how the sun helps them produce Vitamin D &amp develop a healthy natural tan. Maybe the gingers at their school will want to compete in track. Since theyre sensitive to the sun they ask to compete indoors... but you feel like the climate control gives them an unfair advantage. You worry about your kid not being competitive for an athletic scholarship because they still have to compete outside even though the sun doesnt burn them to a crisp. You talk with other parents and start a keep gingers out of outdoor sports campaign and suggest some kids are pretending to be gingers just to get an unfair athletic advantage. You ignore all the shit gingers take day in and day out just for being ginger. The real victim is you and your family. How dare gingers want to be on the track team too! If theyd just not pushed their antisunshine agenda things would have been great like they were before everyone started wanting to be ginger. Ewww. But sure you can say gingers including me are hypocritical for not accepting your view that we shouldnt exist.0 What do you call accept here? Because nobody is trying to force anyone to like LGBT people. Theyre trying to make people accept that they exist in the sense that people shouldnt be trying to take their rights away. No one is insulting people who *quietly* dislike gay people. If you dont make angry public statements about it then no one even knows how you feel and you get no grief. But attacking and insulting gay people isnt holding a belied its attacking and insulting people. If they are insulting you theres no reason you shouldnt insult them back. And advocating for laws to take away your rights or exclude you from public life isnt just holding a belief either. Conservative states have banned genderaffirming care for adults and tried to banish trans people from public life. Trumps Supreme Court has indicated they are ready to overturn gay marriage and just ruled to make it easier to sue gay employers. When someone is advancing the project to actively take your rights away its not suppressing free speech to call them out on it. Its nice to imagine that we live in a society where LGBT rights and dignity are a settled issue and the remaining people who oppose it are just quaint little oddities who pose no threat and can be safely ignored and indulged. But no it is a war for the soul of the country and the war continues today. Telling one side to put down their guns because theyre being hypocritical while the other side keeps firing on them nonstop is never going to be a realistic plan of action. Where youre getting lost is youre equating someones beliefs with sexuality. Theyre not the same. You can choose your beliefs you can change them. You cant choose or change your sexuality. Youre comparing apples to oranges then acting like its hypocrisy to treat apples and oranges differently. You say its not ok to call homophobic people homophobic or bigots? But its ok for bigots to say that LGBT people dont deserve to live/theyre mentally ill/they are freaks because we need to respect our views? Yeah and were wondering why fascism is on the rise... But at the forefront it is to my understanding that we as a society are able to think feel and judge how we please. **Legally**? Sure. Socially? Lol no. The beliefs that society holds about people greatly effects the quality of those peoples lives. We should aim to include people. I have absolutely no idea why youd be against that. I can see disagreement on how to accomplish that goal. You may disagree with certain tactics or whatever. But the goal should be more acceptance. Do you want places that are homophobic to be less homophobic racist etc or are you completely indifferent? Like who cares Id prefer if gay people black people etc to be discriminated against less. How about you? part of agreeing to disagree is agreeing to disagree on moral condemnation. if you value people being able to think feel and judge how they please that should include moral condemnation. Including moral condemnation of bigotry. Morally criticizing someone is not the same thing as force. _However there needs to be an understanding in society that not everyone agrees and sometimes you just need to accept that._ What do you mean by this? It’s not illegal to be bigoted and most bigots do not experience significant social harm. In fact bigots are able to hold positions of power and authority and _force_ their bigotry onto others. Also honestly? I do not care about bigots. If people want to believe dumb nonsense and rob themselves of incredible food/music/culture/people they are more than welcome to. But they cannot harm and be wantonly cruel or exclusionary to others _because_ they are bigoted. You cannot prevent people from having jobs or living in certain areas because they are of a different race/class/sexuality/gender identity/nationality/etc. _With the left constantly fighting for the right to accept them I find there tactics odly similar to what they are fighting against._ The left” just wants people to treat marginalized people humanely with dignity and civility and for the right to just mind their own business and leave people alone. Just be civil and mind your own business. _Belief. Everyone has there own beliefs._ Sure but people are allowed to critique and judge those beliefs especially if they lead to harm. And even if they don’t no belief is sacred. _The left has their community. The right has theres. There is a community as well of somewhere in between._ Listen the right is the one _actively_ limiting the rights of marginalized people. Can you give legislative examples of the left limiting the rights of bigots or the right wing? This isnt to say that someone may take it to the next level by inflicting violence. Whether that is verbal. emotional or physical. By to agree to disagree. Thats how we solve this crazy world. The problem is that those that are intolerant of lgbtq express their intolerance in a manner that detrimental affects the targeted groups. Why cant they just live and let live? What harm is caused? https//en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Paradox_of_tolerance Popper posited that if intolerant ideologies are allowed unchecked expression they could exploit open society values to erode or destroy tolerance itself through authoritarian or oppressive practices. yeah no buddy i ain’t agreeing with someone who believes in inherently immoral and will rightfully call that person a bigot Concerned that you dont know what the word forcing means. The problem is that some people not only don’t accept” queerness they try to actively legislate against it and restrict peoples’ freedoms on the basis of their distaste. If it all just amounted to opinions undergirded by de facto tolerance there’d be no issue. Using words like bigot homophobic and other variances is similarly adjacent to the extreme rights use of antiqueer slurs. Calling someone a slur because they were born with an immutable trait is the same as pointing out someones prejudice? Thats nonsensical. It doesnt seem hypocritical. All persons have an equal right to live free from violence persecution discrimination harassment and stigma including LGBTQ people. This is enshrined in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Therefore when right wingers try to discriminate or stigmatise LGBTQ people they are violating their human rights. Violating someones human rights and standing up for your own human rights as when LGBTQ people demand the equality they are entitled to are not the same thing they are in fact opposites so there is no hypocrisy. What counts as accepting someones sexuality? Yeahhhhh LGTBQIA+ literally seek basic respect as a human being. Thats it. And if any American believes that in freedom but justifies mistreatment of a minority for how they live their life they are a walking contradiction. Lets not pretend the LGBTQIA+ community is showing up to conservatives door demanding to be liked. Social groups who have differing views for their own reasons is fine. But lets not pretend this has been a case of civil discourse. Far from it. Alien invasion of Earth is near impossible as an ending of humanity. Pop culture’s depiction of alien is sometimes malicious and invasive. However I believe it’s impossible for that to happen and is majorly a projection of colonialism that happened in human history. Human race right now is nowhere near interstellar endeavor and our ethics is already advanced enough to at least recognize the fact that colonialism is unethical. There is almost no chance a species of alien who is capable of interstellar travel would develop their ethics so insufficiently compared to technology and science. Therefore out of all ending of humanity extraterrestrial civilization colonization is one of the least feasible ones. Human race right now is nowhere near interstellar endeavor and our ethics is already advanced enough to at least recognize the fact that colonialism is unethical. There is almost no chance a species of alien who is capable of interstellar travel would develop their ethics so insufficiently compared to technology and science. The difference between Humans and Chimps is 1%. That 1% is vastly different and we treat chimps with indifference. An alien race might be 15% more different and advanced than us and might view us in the same light of indifference and minuscule intelligence. The other point of ethics is a linear point of view. We only know of how life has evolved on earth to assume the would have feelings or ethics which could also be shown not to be true. They could have evolved with complete logic based thinking or even evolved past that. [removed] We have Russia invading Ukraine for land Israel committing ethnic cleansing in Gaza the US changing the names of geographical locations on a whim and you think humanity recognises colonialism is unethical? The thing that doesnt make sense in an alien invasion of Earth is the reason for it. During the colonial era the colonizers were looking for land and resources and everywhere they went there were people living there. It just makes little sense that aliens would be faced with the same issue theres nothing special on Earth. Anything they can find here they can find somewhere else. Its like if the Europeans had found 5 continents only one with people on it and they decided thats the one they were going to except that instead of 5 continents its literal billions of planets. So the issue isnt whether they believe colonialism is ethical or not its whether theyre pathologically cruel. Your mistake is equating an unknowable alien race to humans and attributing our own intelligence to them. There is no reason to believe technological advancement is associated with ethics. Some of the most evil things humans have ever done have been recent in the big picture of human civilization. Also look at the animals in earth that are closest to our intelligence and how we treat them if aliens see us as even a single step below them they will have no problem treating us like we treat animals we see as lesser than us. Who says that alien ethics would advance in the exact same way as human ethics? I think that you drastically underestimate the danger any space faring not interstellar Im talking current earth tech levels civilization poses to more advanced civilizations. Right now if humanity chose to we could attach solar sails to an asteroid set some satellites in orbit to concentrate lasers on the sails and shoot a cataclysmic sized rock off at 30% the speed of light that would destroy life on any planet it collided with. With a thousand years of scientific advancement that speed would certainly approach the speed of light or at least be close enough to make early warning defense systems unreliable at best. Now suppose youre an advanced civilization 1000 light years away basically in our galactic backyard. You just detected radio signals from a distant planet and learned that there is advanced life there. You know that they will someday detect your own signals in space and learn the location of your planet. You have three options You can do nothing and hope the Earthlings choose to do the same. you can send a diplomatic mission either in the form of a robotic emissary or a generation ship which will arrive in over a thousand years and wont return with an answer for another thousand years. Or you can launch a planet buster at Earth and each surrounding planet that might support life. In the first two options if the unknown civilization DOES choose to strike at you its too late to respond. The attack is already sent. It might very well already be on the way before your diplomat reaches the system depending how long it takes the Earthlings to detect your signals. The third option at least guarantees their destruction. I think you are right but for the wrong reasons. The simple reason that makes interstellar war near impossible is simply the distances involved in it. It would affect not only the physical forces you would send but more importantly the communications. The closest star is around 4 light years away. Thats 8 years just to send a message and receive an answer thats just not conducive to coordinating warfare Regarding ethics I dont think it should be considered a factor because it is a human concept and what we consider ethical is a not shared by everyone on our own planet b subject to massively change on very short timeline and c has no guarantee to be shared as a concept by any potential advanced civilization. In fact I would go as far as to say that if intelligent life is common in the Universe then it means that basically all types of behaviors must also be common. From genocidal maniacs to benevolent protectors or determined isolationists. I dont see any reasons why not since the only sample we have ourselves have exhibited a whole range of behaviors in the past. Humans don’t care about killing some insects or wildlife when they clear out a forest to build stuff From an aliens perspective maybe they’d see us the same way small and insignificant We dont even know what we dont know. To interdimensional aliens who might use quantum technology that we cant even conceptualize at our level of technological understanding the idea of interstellar travel with rockets or fuel might be as primitive as the idea of using a horsecart and a sailboat to get from China to the tip of Africa. Imagine people at the tip of Africa saying you really think someone has enough food and logistics to ride a horsecart all the way from there to here? Cant happen. And then theyre eclipsed by the shadow of a drone swarm. Another perspective might that alien invasion of Earth is ~~near im~~possible as an ending of humanity if the aliens were viruslike microorganisms or spores that arrived by way of a comet or asteroid striking earth. Our ethics is already advanced enough to at least recognize the fact that colonialism is unethical” And yet we still do it. So perhaps the aliens also have conflicts between their ethics and their actions Why do you think aliens would moralise the way we do? To a species that advanced invading the earth would be like us destroying a forest. We dont view bears as our equals. Thinking that another culture/species should/would have the same ethically system as us is what created colonialism in the first place or at least what they used to make themselves feel better about destroying theirs There is almost no chance a species of alien who is capable of interstellar travel would develop their ethics so insufficiently compared to technology and science. Do you believe that ethics are somehow objective or noncontextual? Because unless our systems of ethics exist somehow outside of human experience then theres absolutely no reason why an alien species that developed differently to us and in a different environmental context would possess a system of ethics comparable to any of our own. Theres absolutely no way to know or even really speculate as to their behaviour or society or moral codes. We only have to look to our own animal species to see how wildly different behaviours can be between species. And they developed in broadly similar environments and circumstances. Why do you believe technological advancement has any direct causal relationship with ethics or morality? What is the mechanisms by which technological development mandates any particular moral or ethical behavior in societies groups and or individuals? If we are talking about an extraterrestrial civilization it would be alien by definition far beyond anything we as humans have ever encountered. Nothing about human development would have any bearing on how such a hypothetical civilization would have had to have developed. It is plausible that some technologically advanced civilization would see any others as possible threats to the survival of their species and the only morally acceptable choice to be destroying all others to ensure their own long term survival. Morality and ethics are human constructs that require social and cultural context. The fact that there are and have been innumerable different views of each depending on the when and where in human history you look should tell us they are not objective laws of the universe. There is no reason to think or expect any nonhumans to have any sort or ethical or moral beliefs that are at all similar to ours unless their development culturally socially and physiologically turned out to be very close to that of humans. All knowledge can be lost if it is not actively maintained. If the aliens do not continue maintaining their ethics it will be gone within a few generations. It does not matter what ethics they had when they developed the tech it only matters what ethics they have when they arrive It seems a bit arbitrary to me to assume that an entirely separate species from a different planet would develop in the same kinds of ways that humans did. My expectation is that they would have a whole different collection of stuff going on. Something completely different from our colonialism into more advanced tech path. We also dont actually have precedence for what a civilization like this would look like because we dont have one. And of course beyond any question of development path we have no idea what needs this alien race could have. So generally I think youre drawing some unwarranted conclusions about this hypothetical alien race. Ethics is subjective. The dark forest any species that expands to space has likely learned a few important lessons A. Any species technologically advanced enough will look like a good can likely wipe out or enslave any other species B. Population growth is usually exponential as life is programmed to expand this means other species will have a high chance of being aggressive expansionists as they will need more resources for their growing population . Combine these two this means ther d a high chance any civilization you encounter in space will be highly aggressive and seek to wipe you out and they likely can. What this means is that to survive in this environment you also have to be highly aggressive expansive and also strike first. And what this means is that even if a civilization is ethical they have no choice but to also become hyper predatory in order to avoid extinction. It’s called the dark first theory and it’s popularized in the three body problem. Let me give an example. Any actual space faring race would have no issue conquering earth once they are ready. All they would have to do is push a few asteroids into the right orbit and humanity is done. Yeah maybe given heads up we could block a couple of asteroids. But they could just very cheaply send a never ending stream of them. Then once a couple hit and our society collapsed they move in and finish the conquest By the time any species gets to finds us they are likely hyper predators to ensure their own survival in the cold dark universe. And we are ants/animals to them… or we are potential future threats to their entire civilization. I mean if you were an alien civilization and saw the horrid humanity has done to itself would you want to take a risk? Or we’ll just nudge some asteroids into earth? And on the other end if humanity has done these awful things why wouldn’t other species? Chimps wage war and murder and rape. Ants wage war and enslave other ant colonies. Dolphins and killer whales can be atrocious to other species. The same species murder rate of humans compared to other known life forms is low. While it’s a comforting thought it’s far from realistic. The assumption that a highly advanced alien species would automatically have the ethics and morality that humans now struggle with is a deeply humancentric perspective. Just because our society has evolved to recognize colonialism as unethical doesn’t mean a species with vastly different evolutionary pressures cultural foundations and moral frameworks would have reached the same conclusions. The reality is that if an alien species is capable of interstellar travel they likely possess a completely different mindset one that may not align with our sense of ethics. For all we know they could have an entirely different concept of ethics or might operate on a moral system that sees other species as resources to be used or even as lesser beings. Advanced technology doesn’t necessarily correlate with advanced morality in fact history shows that civilizations with superior technology have often used it for domination and exploitation—human history included. Furthermore assuming that human ethics will prevent us from becoming colonizers when we develop space travel is dangerously naive. Just because we recognize colonialism as wrong *now* doesn’t mean future generations driven by greed desperation or the desire for power won’t revert to such practices when facing the vastness of space. The same systems that have led to exploitation on Earth could very easily play out again on a cosmic scale. In reality the least likely outcome of extraterrestrial contact isnt that theyd be friendly its that we could become the target of their expansion. Just because humans have learned some lessons doesnt mean other species would follow the same path—or that wed be immune from repeating our own mistakes once the stakes are as high as intergalactic colonization. The idea that a more advanced species would necessarily be morally superior is a dangerous assumption. Ethics and technology don’t always evolve in tandem. While I agree with your point of aliens not being a threat I do not agree with your reasoning to come to such a conclusion. We have no way to gage how the morals of another species have evolved. Humans across time across all belief systems have shown the ability rationalize their own evils with illogical reasoning and self assurance. However there arent many reasons an intelligent alien species capable of interstellar travel to another solar system to invade Earth. Any resources we have can be found in abundance in asteroid belts without the need to waste resources and energy on the destruction of our planet. They could very easily set up mining colonies on all the other planets in our own solar system. The closest solar system to our own is around 4.2 light years away. Assuming aliens exist in this solar system and decide to come to ours it would take the somewhere between four to five years to get here at 99.99999999999999999999951 percent light speed which is the speed of the fastest moving atoms ever observed. The energy required to go at such speeds are so absurd that they could spend a fraction of the energy for that to terraform the planets in their own solar system so unless they have a very large population several times that of humanity they wont be invading for more room for their populace. The only other way they could travel such a distance would be wormholes or teleportation in which case they would have a plethora of other options to go to instead of our solar system. The more likely reasons for an alien invasion would be to stop humanity from adamvacing and becoming a threat to use us to research our biology and the biology of other Earth based organisms in the name of science or to use us as a food source at least in my opinion Hmmmm I dunno man. A few things. Our technological advances always invariably and to this day usually comes with advancements of weaponry and ways to destroy each other. From gun powder to the ar15 to ballistic missiles we loooove to find ways to mass slaughter more of each other. Aliens could have it be the same way if they’d parallel us as you say. So their destructive capabilities could be enormous Secondly if they are as enlightened and wise and morally superior let’s be honest they’d find us nothing short of repulsive and disgusting. Even our greatest achievements like splitting the atom which was immediately used to make the most destructive weapons of all time and landing on the moon would seem like pathetic parlor tricks compared to what they’d have to be capable of. I think if they did have such moral superiority they’d find us horrifying and perhaps worth eliminating Lastly our morals have also come with a lot of stray and varying philosophies and mindsets that guide behavior under a constructed framework. Hedonism. Nihilism. Stoicism. Religion. Spirituality. Some people pursue happiness some think they are guided by invisible deities some see no meaning we have all these random intangible ideologies so what if the aliens land here and go ahhh greetings! It is the greatest honor to be slain by a superior race! We love you all!” An extinct us? There’s just no way to know how they’d think. They could see killing us all as a great privilege for us and a merciful benevolent act in their worldview If the species developed as a warrior culture similar to Yautja from the Predator franchise their ethics would be entirely different to what humanity values. We only need to look at the animal kingdom to see how rare human ethics are. Dolphins are considered to be second to humans in terms of intelligence. If you know of the things they can get up to you know that the second closest creature in terms of intelligence to humans is very dodgy. Then we get onto ourselves. Yes we have ethics but they arent shared across the entire planet so there is little reason to believe that they would be familiar off of it. We can look to serial killers to find the most depraved examples of what humanity can do as individuals. In times of war we can be and have been far worse. Read about the abhorrent medical tests that the Japanese Unit 731 carries out during the Second World War. Then read about other serious war crimes that even the allied nations commited. Should an alien race visit Earth and learn about our history and present I wouldnt like our chances if they were judgemental. If that alien race was also significantly more technologically advanced than us we might be seen as little more than termites. Humans exterminate termites when they are found to be consuming the wood in our buildings. To the termite all it is doing is eating. It has no concept of the structure their eating destabilises. For all we know we could easily be the termite to an alien race. Something is either possible or impossible. Theres no such thing as near impossible. I’ve toyed with the most likely scenario of alien invasion for scifi writing ideas. The best I can come up with that would be feasible within our universe given our current understanding of reality are 3 scenarios that could end our species. 1. Alien invaders are not sentient but are actually synthetic self replicating machines that are programmed to harvest celestial bodies for their resources to be returned to their programmers system. It would take a few hundred/thousand years for the logistic chain to start but once it is formed a species that has these machines could have unlimited materials delivered to their star system and live without want. 2. Similar to 1 the alien invaders would send synthetics as force to destroy our world… however the general public of the alien invaders would be kept in the dark of our existence essentially the elites would be the only ones knowing of our genocide. 3. The alien invaders would live for millennia rather than decades. They would hold different morals than ours and would likely see us as erratic and unpredictable. They likely wouldn’t attack us at first and keep us ignorant of their existence. but once we discover them and accept that they exist they will likely annihilate is due to human nature being an apex predator and generally fearful of unkown threats. Combine all of these and you get a space faring race that has a predatory fleet of space locusts that supply them with unlimited resources an authoritarian elite class that lies to its public about their atrocities but also gives the public access to the unlimited resources they can provide to keep the public happy and not ask too many questions and they would have the lifespan to see their space locust logistic system come to fruition at least form their nearest star system to their home Essentially we would be like the forest above a gold deposit that is about to be pit mined. Guess Ill just throw Halo in here. The Covenant may have had ethics in all natural senses but their real motivator for trying to annihilate Humanity? Religion. More so that they screwed up their interpretation of Ancient Forerunner symbols and realized if it got out that Humans were they very Forerunners they worshipped before that got retconned the entire foundation of their society would collapse. That being that ANYONE could transcend should their faith be strong enough. So the big chair wigs in charge decided Humanity had to go so they could safely walk their path to Salvation. Salvation being firing Life destroying space rings to burn and starve a parasite not that everyone knew that.... Of course this is putting a buncha human ideas into Ailens but if we can far fetch Gods based on not very much physical stuff and heavily seeking to explain the unknown can Aliens intelligent enough to develop space travel and find us do the same? Hell the Covenant worshipped something that WAS real died and left a shit ton of advanced stuff behind. Thats more than we can say. If were so smart yet capable of weaponizing religious fanaticism and all the pain and suffering its caused for selfrighteous reasons were still doing it now why wouldnt Ailens? Why would we really be the only ones capable of exploiting Faith if there were other intelligent beings? This is making a lot of assumptions which are common about the mind set of an extraterrestrial species. You see you are making the assertion that an alien race that was advanced enough to reach earth would definitely have a advanced ethical and moral code by that point and it would be unlikely they are there for nefarious purposes. But this is making the assumption that this species has a mind that work in a way that is nearly exactly the same as a human. But this is very unlikely. Consider this it could be a species that are parasitic or predatory in nature. Maybe they even have an ethical code among themselves or on levels of cruelty but from our perspective it would still look like total war and domination of our race. Or maybe they don’t have minds or bodies that work in a way reminiscent of ours whatsoever. They could wipe us out for reasons we could not even comprehend that would not be due to any moral failure on their part but simply a total difference in the way they views life and other being. You have absolutely no information that would lead to such a conclusion. Technological superiority does imply ethical and cultural advancement. Youre also assuming the end of humanity would be through some invasion there are MANY other ways it could go down such as the spread of disease a slow cultural erasure over multiple generations introduction of technologies too advanced for us to safely utilize hell the mere confirmation of intelligent alien life would cause massive political cultural and religious upheaval overnight that might end us.... the list goes on. We observe in nature survival of the fittest. We observe throughout human history the graveyards filled with former cultures and empires. In the absence of information we can only turn to our own history and understand of the world. Im sorry to say but if the universe out there is just like humanity... it does NOT end well for the new guy on the block. It would be foolish in the extreme to assume that there is no risk. Theres an episode of Star Trek TNG S4e15 that handles first contact from the perspective of an alien species of a similar technological and cultural level to us today Id highly recommend giving it a watch and think carefully about the conclusion. Colonialism as in violently holding on to distant territories which were trying to become independent turned out to unprofitable and expensive especially to European countries which had just been devastated in world wars. And war between major powers brought terrible risks once nuclear weapons were invented. So no all humans never got together and honestly decided that all violence is intrinsically bad”. At most violence was deemed to be temporarily inconvenient as long as everyone believes themselves to profit more in peace. Whenever that equation changes people can and do choose violence all the time. And to the extent that people do truly value peace this is also partly dependent on the development of certain religions and ideologies as well as very specific historical events. Assuming that the specific ideas and ethics which happen to be popular or socially acceptable today must some kind of universal truth which every hypothetical civilisation would arrive at is… quite a stretch. Ethics and the maturation of technology are not linked. People might say that the Russian Federation has the edge in a few technologies and the ability to make use of technologies that other societies create. But what does Russia do ethically? They invade their neighbors to take their resources. They keep ethnic minorities suppressed and tied to a state that they do not want to be integrated with at all. They threaten to end the world regularly as if it is an actual positive strategy. What makes you think that ethics and advanced technology are linked? The US who some a dwindling some may say is a more ethical power still has homelessness systematic theft from citizens based upon immutable attributes legalized corruption and radomly kills people in order to kill other people who they may happen to know hi and bye know not share your deep thoughts know. I think the real issue here is that you anthropomorphise unhuman species so having an ethics system let alone thinking it important enough to put alongside other types of development. Ethics arent tied to technology or science and only our current 2021st century humanity has linked ethics to scientific development no guarantees other civilsations or species would do the same. However even if I anthropomorphised the aliens consider that humans dont treat any other species or organism as well as they do themselves. Might be worth considering that a powerful alien civilisation may not either. Diseases incindental catastrophes are all possible and even likely were contact to occur which could also culminate in our destruction. I think your take is optimistic even for humans let alone completely unhuman alien species. Human race right now is nowhere near interstellar endeavor and our ethics is already advanced enough to at least recognize the fact that colonialism is unethical. The error in this sentence is the a whole series of completely unfounded assumptions starting with the assumption that ethical positions of one political faction in a smallish part of humanity western leftists is representative for the ethics of the entire humanity and ending in the unfounded assumption that ethical development is teleological and unidirectional. And finally that the idea Thing X is unethical” results in Thing X not being done any more. The ethical idea that conquering other people and exploiting them is bad and should not be done predates colonialism. It never stopped anyone. *There is almost no chance a species of alien who is capable of interstellar travel would develop their ethics so insufficiently compared to technology and science.* Isnt this just a projection of human perspective just like in the example of colonialism you gave? Where does the assumption come from that an alien race will be guided by ethical principles similar to ours? You yourself rightly noticed that our ideas and views including ethics result to a large extent from the history that humanity has experienced. Besides the argument that equates technological development with the development of ethics is of questionable quality. The examples we see seem to contradict it. Unethical behavior in the name of development is highly normalised and common. Firstly our ethics have not advanced that much. We just pretend it does. Just look at ukraine gaza and sudan. Humans are pos. Secondly colonizing earth for resources is a bit silly. Theres plenty of other planet/moon/asteroid where the resources are more concentrated thus requiring less extraction effort. Thirdly colonizing earth for conquest of humans is even more useless. Whatever we can do those aliens would already have able to them better. Just imagine the level of AI they have. Fourthly a conquest/war at a terrestrial level will likely be something like a black forest question. Its better to strike first to remove possible existential threats. This explains it quite well. Some aliens might have endeavours that involve expanding and harnessing evermore energy from their surroundings. And I don’t think there is sufficient reason to believe that all intelligence no matter where it arises in the universe will converge on the same or similar ethics. Their relation to us may be analogous to how we don’t care about ant colonies in the grounds where we choose to build skyscrapers. An additional reason may be wanting to have more control over their future which I assume is a robust feature for any intelligent agent it’s not anthropomorphic. Eliminating future competition that may end up having other ideas about how the surrounding universe should be would seem like a possible instrumental goal in order to maximise having more control over one’s future. An alien invasion is unlikely to end the current humanity as we know it but ethics is not the reason. This is no offense absurd. This assumes human morality is some sort of universal morality. That is impossible. Take cats some species of cat can only reproduce by raping a female cat. Is rape morally wrong? Sure to US but if cats ran society they would have a completely different moral code than humans Another example would be ants. Ants are probably the most advanced” insects yet they literally have slavery and some species even use other species of insects as incubators Lastly since intelligence seems to be higher in carnivores it is very likely that if aliens that reach space and get to earth they will have little regard for life the way we do….Or at least the way you pretend we do What? No. Your assumption is entirely based on humanitys growing and relatively recent notion of respect for other humans and animals. 1. Not all human civilizations feel this way and certainly not in all time periods. 2. An alien invader may not even have conscious thought as we know it. It could be a hive mind or a machine race. 3. Humans could present an existential threat to these aliens enough to justify destroying us. 4. Its entirely possible to build a culture around an ethical system that prizes strength above all. Human history is full of examples of this. These civilizations believe questions of right and wrong in so far as they exist are settled by struggle not universal morality. If you think for a minute about how literally all modern scientific discovery and innovation has been funded by the war machine world wide you might think differently. Nothing has funding unless it could be potentially weaponized. These weapons are either potentials for warfare directly or used in the propaganda machine by the same governments which funded them. Fighting over the space above earth is the next frontier of idiot monkey people. With quantum computing revealing strange facts about the nature of reality like the fact that a 1 dimensional worm hole is opened over the q bits and other things like how time creates space traversing the cosmos in euclidean measure might not even be the hurdle. Personally I think that whatever is construed as aliens will just be humans from the distant future who have warped their bodies in persuit of eternal life that would look very strange with some shit like lobster DNA directly spliced into their genome for regenerative purposes. These will be the colonizers. They will manipulate our time and exploit our work to make changes in their own future while modern people simply think they are foreign invaders instead of understanding that humans are the most rotten bunch of organisms to ever exist and their love of exploitation knows no bounds You seem to be assuming that technological and ethical advancement is some kind of linear progression towards a platonic ideal. I’d argue that there is no evidence this is the case at all. You’re also assuming aliens are basically more advanced humans with similar motivations and cultures that would progress in the same way we have but just far more advanced. I’d argue there is no reason to assume that either. The common depiction of an alien takeover is silly for many reasons namely that anything that can get here with the goal of co quest is SO advanced we would offer no resistance. But motives? It doesn’t even need to be malicious. Indifference is just as likely. Our ethical treatment of animals is extremely poor. Youre missing some key concepts * * * If were unlucky enough to have spawned near enough to a slightly older intelligent civilization getting wiped out by them is not just possible but the likely thing that would happen. More likely the advanced aliens are too far away and Earthoriginating AI/robots will be doing the invading probably after wiping humanity out first. It depends. Are you referring to the Hollywood trend of alien spaceships zapping American cities? Then yes I would agree with you. But invasions don’t happen that way in real life. Invasions are usually occupations rather than pure genocide. A true alien invasion would likely involve a show of force and then the toppling of national governments leading to rule by the aliens themselves. And unlike War of the Worlds where our invaders die of disease they would likely bring deadly diseases with them that would infect *us*. Luckily the likelihood of an advanced alien civilization actually being aware of the Earth’s existence is extremely small It’s besides the point but the real reason is because the chance that interstellar aliens encounter earth in both the precise place and time in which we exist are minuscule. But to your point you’re forming a premise that’s entirely false. Just because humans have broadly grown more ethical as we’ve grown more technologically advanced doesn’t mean that other aliens will. If they have the ability to extract all the natural resources from a planet and then simply move onto the next one. At the point you wouldn’t really need to be bound by any ethics towards aliens species. You can pretty much do what you want. Colonists saw colonialism as unethical as well. The king of Spain commanded the colonists to treat the indigenous people well the British saw their mission as a civilizing mission and didn’t want to treat the natives the way the US treated their natives. The point is just because you see yourself and your country as good and righteous doesn’t mean the effects of your actions won’t be terrible. An alien civilization could colonize us and think they’re going to help us but end up doing tons of damage. GWB thought he was going to bring democracy and freedom to Iraq. Look where they’re at now. Pretty impossible hypothetical but I imagine that its very possible. A race could definitely have views that all other races and species are inferior unless that view would be mutually exclusive with space travel. I dont see how being a massively racist species would prevent them from ever achieving space travel and if they did they could reasonably seek to wipe out any life that doesnt fit their standards. I mean for example imagine the native Americans. They could imagine that any society advanced enough to cross the Atlantic ocean would surely not want to hurt them... right? You make the assumption that ethics and technology are related with no other reason than we are ethical and we have technology. This isn’t a rational argument. It’s not that difficult to find examples today where people are using technology for genocide to take their land. Technology and ethics are not mutually equitable. If our planet has resources that are desirable for another civilization our welfare would likely be irrelevant. Fortunately interstellar conquest is probably not practical due to the vastness of the universe and the energy required for interstellar warfare. I dunno. Its possible that an advanced technology civilization developed an altruistic ethical doctrine when it comes to first contact developed over a long history of postscarcity due to the advancement of their technology a la Vulcans. On the other hand its not unreasonable to believe that such civilizations acquired that technology in the first place like we tend to not for socially altruistic reasons but for selfish and militaristic reasons and profit motives and that conquest remains their primary driver a la Klingons and Ferengi. Its really 5050. We would absolutely still colonize the shit out of an alien planet if we could. Other commenters have expressed the logistics and logical arguments well so I want to take it from the angle that assumes the Aliens have developed our same moral framework. Id counter that by our own moral and ethical judgments humans meet the criteria of an invasive species and humans currently deem it moral impatative to exterminate invasive species. As we would be the less developed species in this example and the Aliens share our moral framework they may seek to cull vast swarms of humanity for the planets ecological sustainability. The simple fact of the matter is there is just no resource unique to Earth That would be particularly interesting to aliens Pretty much every resource available on Earth is available in abundance on other uninhabited planets That would be much easier for the aliens to mine for resources There is just no real benefit to them invading us If aliens took any sort of interest In us it would mostly be in the same way we are interested in them A chance for scientific research and perhaps even trading scientific information Since there is no proof yet of aliens whats so ever and the universe is capable of producing any form of life. It is thus very likely that every form of Science Fiction may come true. In the Hitchhikers Guide to the Galaxy the earth was destroyed by the Vogon to simply make way for a space highway. The human planet is simply in the way to expand another race. We are at war for resources and differences ourselves. Why would that not cause the apokalypse for us humans since we are severly underdeveloped to even compete? Ethics needs to be weighed against the extreme difficulty of interstellar travel and that fact that we have no idea if the ones to reach us will be official representatives of their society and culture. They will be coming off of a very long and difficult journey and will be starved for resources. Also depending on how you define invasion even if their intentions are entirely good just by being here they might cause changes to happen that drastically alter or destroy our civilization as we know it. Counterpoint. What sort of ethical development happened between the times of the Romans and Industrialisation? There was plenty of technological and scientific development but colonisation happened in both periods. How likely is it that humanity itself might slip back into ethical regression even as science and technology continue advancing? Id say more than 0%. The sad fact is that science and ethics are two different things so its quite possible for a people to have more of one than the other. If an alien being was capable of interstellar travel happened upon Earth they would be a far superior being. They would look at us like we look at monkeys. Right or wrong humans have no issues with taking the land or colonizing what we believe to be inferior to us. If these aliens had the same ethics as humans which likely wouldnt be the the case by this was what was presented they would likely view us like we do monkeys and have no issue experimenting on us and stealing Earth. You have a sample size of one so you cannot reasonably say that scientific and ethical advances go hand in hand. Id also ask for if youre familiar with the Fermi Paradox about how unusual it seems we havent encountered signs of life in the universe and the potential Dark Forest theory answer to it that the reason for this is that any life that advances enough to signal itself to the wider universe is then targeted by other established civilisations who are hostile to alien life. Your sample size is 1 you have no idea what you are talking about Youre assuming guaranteed linear progress. Although Ill note that people usually conceive of aliens as either wanting to wipe us out or being peaceful. Just from human history and how cultures act when discovering each other there are so many more possibilities. Aliens could come and try to rule over us for our own good whether it turns out to actually be good or the aliens screw everything up while trying to rule us for resource extraction or more likely both. Maybe the aliens are supremacist and see us as inferior and as a plague. Basically space Nazi’s. Or a hive mind that just requires biomass. Or maybe they really Like our planet are super unethical hyper capitalist and just accidentally” release a virus that wipes us out so they can move in. Or maybe they are left wing” and free us from our capitalist chains but the war wipes out half the population… Lots of ways aliens could wipe us off the board. Human race right now is nowhere near interstellar endeavor and our ethics is already advanced enough to at least recognize the fact that colonialism is unethical. You can watch a genocide being livestreamed right now being carried out so one country can take more land. What makes you think the alien equivalent of the East India Company wouldnt just drop a few nukes to clarify they wont take no for an answer regarding whatever it is they want? I cant imagine what makes you believe that ethics plays into it that if they did they would develop in the same way as human ethics or that such a paradigm would even necessarily develop at all. At any rate alien invasion is just a fun exercise in fiction to reflect on human problems. There is just little predicting at this point what the motivations of an alien species would be or what the material pressures or constraints on them would be. i agree but not because of ethics because of mode of production. we quite simply dont have anything they would need. an interstellar space faring species can simply get necessary resources elsewhere or by trading outdated tech to lesser species for it. slaughtering an entire planet for whatever they are after makes comparatively little sense for a species who has mastered their resources well enough to establish a multi stellar civilization. There is almost no chance a species of alien who is capable of interstellar travel would develop their ethics so insufficiently compared to technology and science. The problem here is we dont really know its all speculation. They might be a species with no concept of ethics There is even a war ongoing right now in europe and middle east committing Warcrimes left and right and they are using sophisticated technology. In all of these conversations I end up realizing that the only thing that will keep humans from killing other humans is an alien race. We are tribal. Right now our tribe is our country and our ethnicity maybe our city or state. An alien race will force us to see our tribe as humanity and might save us. In turn I believe we will likely be the aggressors in an inter species conflict ala Enders Game and go nuts. Aliens are going to be alien to us. We have no real way of knowing how they operate or how an interstellar community would operate. If you want to prove that they do not conquer or kill then you need to argue from the physics of interstellar travel not from culture. I agree that scifi often is about us today or near future and not about real ideas for how the cosmos operates. That is bound to happen. Aliens too might be dogmatic. They might think for example that only within their framework can new civilizations arise in a stable and orderly manner and anything else would lead to chaos war misery. To that end they might decide to uplift other species. Species that developed a civilization fully independently may be viewed as unknown variables. An invasion would be akin to risk management or preemptive threat neutralization. Another possibility would be an alien Paperclip Maximizer scenario. Its quite unlikely that an alien species showing up would have anything approaching thoughts similar to ours... I dont know if we could even have a conversation about ethics with such entities. A more likely scenario is that an interstellar species would just ignore our planet. Any beings capable of traveling the long distance between stars wouldnt care much about planets like earth anymore. There is almost no chance a species of alien who is capable of interstellar travel would develop their ethics so insufficiently compared to technology and science Aliens are alien I agree its unlikely that an alien species will bother traveling to Earth to kill us all it would be safer to exterminate us remotely Apparently youre unfamiliar with the Dark Forest hypothesis Why would assume that ethical development is an inevitability? Technological advancement doesn’t require a human like emotional state. Look at something like The Borg in Star Trek an artificial that only understands the material world in terms of efficiency and assimilation. You’re applying what could easily be a uniquely human concept ethics as if it’s inherently universal. I mean if aliens discovered us and had a reason to want to colonize Earth they would presumably look at us the same way we look at apes. Sure we think colonizing people we consider our equal is wrong but when there was a possibility that Harambe MIGHT hurt a human child he was killed without a second thought despite it being possible to save the kid without killing them. Read 3 body problem. Very well thought out and smart book about this topic. Also I agree with your premise. The more likely thing would be as the book puts it a dark forest attack It would make more sense for an advanced species that is space faring to simply eliminate a potential threat from afar by taking out the system they reside than visiting and conquering. They can be so alien that just wouldnt figure out that we are sapient. I suggest to read Fiasco by Stanislav Lem. Or their planet would be dying so they are desperate to terraform Earth. Or they are Zergs. Or commander of their fleet would be child that thought they is playing video game. Cmon there are so many variations when something goes wrong. Even though we maybe recognize colonial exploitation as morally bad there‘s still plenty examples where nations or organizations engage in exploitative practices today. And that‘s implying an alien race would apply it‘s same moral standards to another species. Like we have no qualms to industrially exploit animals for example. Its not impossible its just so implausible that its not worth considering seriously. The idea that a species \*MUST\* develop what we think of as advanced ethics/morality by the time they have the capacity to visit us is very humancentric and doesnt necessarily reflect reality. Though well probably never know for sure. P Thats nonsensical from multiple angles 1. It assumes that ethics only moves forward to a more benevolent iteration thats not true 2. It assumes theres only one reason for invasion 3. It assumes countless charcteristcs about the aliens to give them our understanding of war or ethics or technology These are all baseless Youre assuming similar brain development but its unlikely to occur twice. Advanced mollusks are great with puzzles but empathy is nonexistent. You could also be dealing with an incredibly eusocial species where the colony is the endallbeall. They could also introduce disease unintentionally which weve done ourselves. What if the aliems are so advanced they realise they can only use the earth and its resouces if they keep us from destroying the planet first. Maybe they need the trees alive mayne they need other wildlife to florish. But we are destroying the planet. Ending us or at least limiting severely could be the saviour for them. I dont disagree with your points but I would argue if aliens were that advanced they wouldnt colonize us simply because they would have zero need to as our planet would have nothing to offer them that they dont already have. Basically their reasons for not colonizing is less about ethics and more about lack of need. Humans treat each other horrifically even today. And when we want natural resources we plunder them no matter the impact to other species. No reason to think extraterrestrials would do any different if they arrived here and saw that we had resources they required to continue their way of life Alien invasion? What do you mean by that? I mean we have so many aliens that it’s difficult to keep track. We’re dealing with Mexicans Guatemalans Costa Ricans. They’re bursting 🫵🫱 through our borders Martello and nobody’s doing anything about it. They’re smuggling fentanyl having children out of wedlock… SAD. There is almost no chance a species of alien who is capable of interstellar travel would develop their ethics so insufficiently compared to technology and science. Is there a universally agreed upon code of ethics? Because humans cannot even agree on what is ethical and what isnt. Your argument has one fatal assumed application. Other beings would think the same way humans do. A war like slave trading race is just as likely as a friendly race. Advanced technology and compassion are not necessarily linked in beings with different thought processes. I’d argue colonialism is something most of us would prefer not to do but we absolutely would out of necessity. Like if the Aliens come from a dying world and ours is the only habitable one they can reach? They likely would just come in and make themselves at home. How do you know they’d see us as somewhat equals like that. If we want to build a new Walmart or condo complex we’ll roll in and wipe out a small section of a forest without even really even acknowledging the animal life we’re killing in the process. Ending humanity doesnt necessarily have to be a conscious decision by the aliens. They could introduce a disease our immune systems couldnt handle. Disease killed waaaaay more people during the Columbian Exchange than the most ruthless conquistador Umm… ever seen Zoos ? People eating and farming animals on the daily ? Humans destroying their habitats for their own benefit ? Why are you comparing this as if the aliens would be the same species ? We’d be like a fish/chicken for them . How have humans realized colonialism is unethical when it’s happening again right now with AI? Theres a ton of research from universities on AI colonialism and taking resources and exploiting the people in marginalized countries to power AI. Yeah it’s most likely they will just view us insignificant. A strip mine isn’t concern about the bugs that lived there before they started mining. They will just show up take the resources they came to Earth for and leave. If we all die or don’t isn’t going to be concern for them. If we are annoying them or get in their way they may just kill us all to fix the problem. Or we literally won’t be able to do anything and pretty much will be ignored. and our ethics is already advanced enough to at least recognize the fact that colonialism is unethical And meanwhile completely forget that much of our products is made using what is practically slave labor from other poorer countries. Thinking the end of humanity is near impossible is what I’m more concerned about in this post. Also if any aliens came here and were « ethical » they would burn us to the ground. Humans are not good. Forget that delusion. [removed] [deleted] If they are so advanced they may think of us as some animal that they can kill to get the resources they want. We as humans dont apply our ethics to animals we consider unintelligent so they may think same as us. your assumption is that any invading aliens will see as equals just look at shrimp production we cut off the eyes of the females to increase yeild! humans are only ever a few meals away from eating their ethics Though it IS likely an Alien species would scour the galaxy for organic resources. They might not want to kill us but if they were to take the planet and mine all its resources we would probably fight back. We say colonialism is wrong but still actively practice it all over the world. Even if alien academic” back on their home world know that interstellar colonialism is wrong that wont stop anything. Being technologically advanced doesnt mean compassionate or moral though. I mean the first thing we did when we discovered how to split the atom was drop it on two major cities in Japan. We will be different species though. Unless the human race also applies our same values to other species I think its u reasonable to assume another advanced species to do the same. Youre assuming that ethics develop in a linear fashion university. We dont even know thats the case for humans let alone billions of possible civilisations out there. Certain species may not even have a concept of ethics or even the self. Is it colonialism when a human crushes a nest of ants because hes building something? If aliens can get here they are so far beyond us that wed just be ants to them. We have no way of knowing whether or not they’d bring diseases that would completely and rapidly burn through our entire population like an unfettered wildfire. With a sample size of one and a hell of a lot of assumptions I will make this proclamation about the nature of life across the entirety of the universe” Colonialism is unethical Says who? We do sure. But what if the bugs of Klendathu think its morally right to eliminate all inferior species? Most humans have decent ethics but if we came across an alien race I feel like Trump would want to enslave them or send them to El Salvador… Sure they wouldnt invade us. They would just attack from afar with a weapon that would leave no survivors left to track them and retaliate. I don’t think human ethics are universal just something that evolved because compassionate humans are more likely to spread their dna I agree but only for a different reason. Humanity will have been wiped out long before the possibility that it could happen. If you think of western civilization ethics really declined from 1914 to 1945 but our technology went up immensely. I dont know if humanity has overcome colonialism. Israel still exists and most western countries support it. Bro an alien Spezies so advanced they can trevel here wont see us as more as some ants on thier recources. What if the alien race that shows up is a buglike race that wars with anything that is not its own? That’s why Arrival is the best depection of what I’d expect from an alien encounter. The cautiousness and journey to figure out how to communicate first. Great movie Youre assuming aliens will evolve in the same way humans did? Thats ridiculous lol. Technological and ethical development are not guaranteed to track each other. Why would alien ethics align with or be similar to human ethics at all? White people/Europeans/Westerners are just as violent and crime committing as any race if not more they just get a pass because they are white. I have worked as a criminal lawyer for 6 years and a majority of people who are let off are of white heritage even some of the worse crimes i have ever seen they mostly got a slap on the wrist. White/Western media constantly demonizes immigrants/foreigners when they have done far worse to their own people. My best friend was killed by a drunk Caucasian women who was texting and ran him over at the intersection he has never committed any crimes did everything to go above and beyond to help the community. I personally can not help white culture/the white race anymore because i just do not see the point anymore. I have also become prosegregation as i believe this is the only way to truly help these communities being decimated. To /u/peoplearescum177 *Your post is under consideration for removal for violating Rule B.* In our experience the best conversations genuinely consider the other person’s perspective. Here are some techniques for keeping yourself honest Instead of only looking for flaws in a comment be sure to engage with the commenters’ strongest arguments — not just their weakest. Steelman rather than strawman. When summarizing someone’s points look for the most reasonable interpretation of their words. Avoid moving the goalposts. Reread the claims in your OP or first comments and if you need to change to a new set of claims to continue arguing for your position you might want to consider acknowledging the change in view with a before proceeding. Ask questions and really try to understand the other side rather than trying to prove why they are wrong. Please also take a moment to review our guidelines and _really_ ask yourself am I exhibiting any of these behaviors? If so see what you can do to get the discussion back on track. Remember the goal of CMV is to try and **understand** why others think differently than you do. Is your view just some very strong odd conclusions youve arrived at from your anecdotal experience? Are you looking to change the premise of your anecdote or the conclusions youve arrived at? Being pro segregation will not help minorities this seems like a divisive fed post. What precisely would it take to change your view? Basically all stats would disagree. This includes * Black vs white crime stats in the USA * Immigrant vs native in the European Union * Crime rates of Europe / USA / Canada / Australia vs most other paste of the world Now obviously all of that is culture and zero of it is any sort of biological imperative. Obviously you should believe there’s nothing intrinsic that would be racism. Whats decimating which communities? You wont rely on statistics because you believe they are unreliable. What evidence would change your mind? Its hard to construct an answer without more information. Where are you from for example. Also are your views backed by any data or is it just your personal perception? white people are probably a majority of the country ya live in problem solved Considering you clearly know every stat on the issue shows you’re wrong presumably you have no interest in having your mind changed. hmm criminal lawyer uses anecdotal evidence to disprove statistics interesting [removed] [removed] [removed] We literally have the stats on this. If your opinion is number be mad racist I would just assume you werent worth explaining this to. Probably the easiest rebuttal is that richer people have less motivation to commit property related crimes and white people are generally richer. Sure we can argue whether the wealth of white communities were acquired fairly in the past but as of *right now* white people are less likely to commit property related crimes because there is lesser financial incentive. Violent crime rates in Western Europe are lower than almost anywhere else in the world. [removed] Theres ample research supporting this much of which is enforced through systemic means. Although considering white males lead the U.S. in mass shootings yeah its a big problem. Tony Hawk is the greatest athlete of all time. Not the greatest skateboarder the greatest athlete period. Why? Because unlike most elite athletes who step into established sports with decades of history Tony Hawk took an underground often mocked subculture and made it matter. He didn’t just win titles he built the sport’s global identity. Quick list ✅Landed the first 900 at age 31. ✅Stayed relevant and active into his 50s. ✅Turned a niche sport into a global phenomenon. ✅Launched one of the most influential video game franchises of all time. ✅Helped get skateboarding into the Olympics. ✅Built hundreds of skateparks in underserved communities through his foundation. MJ didn’t invent basketball. Brady didn’t invent football. But Hawk made skateboarding mainstream almost singlehandedly and he did it without a league without a team and without a playbook. Most athletes dominate their sport. Tony Hawk is his sport. Change my view. Most influential athlete in a sport does not necessarily mean greatest athlete. Part of the reason for Tony Hawks dominance was skateboarding niche status. It is objectively much harder to break out at the top of a well established sport. Some people that similarly brought their sport to the world stage Tiger Woods Muhammed Ali Wayne Gretsky and Michael Jordan. I mean this politely but I have to imagine that if you asked people worldwide who they recognized out of those five names I dont think Tony hawk is in the top three. I think Tony Hawk is fantastic but I dont know that theres a realistic metric in which he is the top out of all athletes Do we not have to factor in the popularity of a sport when talking about the greatest athlete of all time? Its much less of an achievement to be the best at something when your competition is a lot smaller. In my mind being the greatest athlete ever is dominating your sport + having a cultural impact. Brady Jordan and Messi are just more recognizable than Tony Hawk. I think it just depends on the metrics you are using. By your criteria you may have a case. But Im not entirely sure that being an ambassador for a sport is necessarily the same thing as being a great athlete in that sport. If two people play a sport and one is better at the sport but the other starts a successful game franchise which is the better athlete? Im more inclined to measure athleticism but the actual technical capabilities within the sport rather than the accomplishments in advancing the sport. But again Im not really sure I would say youre wrong I just dont really agree with the criteria you are prioritizing. Thought experiment who is a better basketball player Caitlin Clark or LeBron James? Now who did more to advance the attention of their respective leagues Caitlin Clark or LeBron James? If you treat those as separate questions thats the difference between athleticism and ambassadorship. Jordan turned basketball into an international sport. There’s no Luca or Yannis without him. He created the signature basketball shoe industry. On a purely athletic level Jordan could run faster and jump higher than Hawk. Their athletic abilities aren’t close. I think Tony Hawk is a great skateboarder and seems like a very cool guy. I loved Tony Hawk Pro Skater 1 &amp 2 when I was young. But I guess the main objection here would be around what you define as greatest. Greatest at his sport? Id have to see the stats which would be difficult because for a long time skateboarding wasnt formalised in a competitive way. Greatest as in best known / most celebrated? On either of those points I think hed still lose out to somebody like Michael Jordan Cristiano Ronaldo Diego Maradona Pele Lionel Messi Sachin Tendulkar Simone Biles Roger Federer... There are a tonne of others. Probably a significant factor here is that youre talking about a sport that is watched known about and practiced by relatively few people. Whereas others sports like football soccer have literally hundreds of millions or billions of fans worldwide. Almost all football fans around the world will have heard of Cristiano Ronaldo or Diego Maradona or Messi and they would all say that they are some of the greatest if not the greatest players ever to have lived. Only a small number of people mostly in the west will know who Tony Hawk is. Tony Hawk is a great skateboarder. He probably did more for the sport than anyone else. He made a lot of very smart business decisions. But greatest *athlete* of all time? I dont think so. Your argument is based around what he accomplished in said niche category that is half subjective and half true. On top of that Tony Hawk didn’t invent skateboarding either so that point is useless lol. You can say he is one of the most influential athletes and I don’t think anyone would disagree. But saying he’s the best athlete of all time because of what he did for a niche hobby/sport is egregious and I love Tony Hawk. Basketball football baseball however are not really niche. They’re considered THE main sports in America and in most cases the world. Skateboarding isn’t that. Ask someone who doesn’t even watch basketball who MJ Kobe or LeBron is and I bet they know. But if you ask the same person who Tony Hawk is the probability of them knowing who that is is lower. I’m not saying people don’t know but I’m saying the reach is VASTLY different between skateboarding and other sports. MJ CHANGED basketball. Brady CHANGED football. Messi Beckham etc. CHANGED soccer. Venus and Serena CHANGED tennis. That’s the difference. Other than assist in skateboarding become more known what did Tony change about skateboarding? No disrespect to him. That’s not subjective. That’s factual. You can say what you want and keep your stance but facts don’t care about your feelings. You must mean sports figure right? Because best athlete is a stretch. The worst NBA player has more athleticism than the best skateboarder. Pretty sure Tony Hawk at his peak couldn’t match someone like Aaron Donald or Lawrence Taylor in either strength or agility. But even if you mean ‘sports figure’ this reeks of recency bias. Babe Ruth popularized a sport so much it became a national pastime time. He was the first athlete to make more money than the president. Skateboarding is still niche at its most popular. Jordon and the dream team popularized Basketball globally. Tony Hawk didn’t invent skateboarding either. Muhammad Ali is toted as both one of the best athletes in his sport by various professionals across both his sport and others but also the epicentre of a significantly more impactful cultural movement related to racial equality as well as speaking out against the US’s awful foreign policy read war for oil. His nickname is literally The Greatest” [removed] Shouldnt level of competition matter though? Compare the number of people skateboarding when Hawk was first making it with the number of people internationally playing soccer. How confident can you be if that many people had all been into skateboarding instead that Tony Hawk would still be the biggest name? Therefore someone like Pele should be considered a better athlete. Hawk didn’t invent skateboarding either. He took a sport that was unknown and made it pretty mainstream. Michael Jordan Babe Ruth and Tiger Woods all did that with their respective sports too. If you want to say Hawk is more impressive than those guys you can but I think that just depends on what sport you like the most personally. You can’t definitively say Hawk is the best ever just because his sport was less popular than the others although I’m not sure that’s true for Ruth. Personally I think by your own standard Babe Ruth takes the cake here. Baseball dominated American sports for decades after he retired. Ruth is really responsible for making professional sports as a whole mainstream and profitable. Athlete implies incredible strength and endurance. Tony Hawk was in good shape but he would get his ass handed to him in any fitness metric against any number of professional athletes from any number of sports. I think you have a decent argument but theres no way most people would ever agree he was the greatest athlete. China would have invaded Taiwan decades ago if not for that Bulls team not saying ur wrong but MJ has had a massive impact on sports that cannot be understated such as Jordans and if you ask people everyone knows who MJ is id hazard a guess more ppl know MJ than Tony Hawk and no offense but what ur tryna say seems like the wrong wording the way ur saying it is that hes the greatest athlete which implies he has the best physical gifts and not about the recgonition or affiliation with the sport like you are saying For me the greatest athlete in modern history is Jackie Robinson. Was a star athlete in football basketball track tennis and baseball which was considered his weakest sport setting all sorts of records in juco and college. Just a stellar athlete in any sport he tried. Then he basically dropped them all and lost his prime age 2125 years to fight in WWII. After four and a half years of not even playing sports came back and started absolutely dominating Negro League baseball. He didnt even play in MLB until age 28 but immediately won Rookie of the Year and then MVP went on to have a hall of fame career starting at an age when most guys would be considered past their prime. And he did all of that while enduring the most vitriol an athlete has probably ever experienced. Most people know Jackie only for breaking the color barrier but forget how terrific he was as an athlete ballplayer and man. For me hes one of the biggest whatifs in sports and the greatest athlete in American history. I love TH but this is just a subjective opinion. That may all be true but skateboarding isnt as large a sport as some of the other popular ones. Theres a Tony hawk of surfing of badminton of curling. A soccer star will entertain and inspire and generate 10x the amount of people/revenue. You can only skate on pavement. You can play soccer on a dirt patch next to a lithium mine. Simone Biles is so good they had to ban people from doing moves she did out of fear they would injury themselves because they arent as good as her. Tony Hawk is great but no where near that level of super human. While many people have already argued why Hawk may not be the greatest athlete I thought Id CYV a little differently. MJ didn’t invent basketball. Brady didn’t invent football. But Hawk made skateboarding mainstream almost singlehandedly and he did it without a league without a team and without a playbook. He was definitely influential but *singlehandedly*? I feel like youre underappreciating the effect of the guys from Jackass. That started a year after the 900 and THPS came out and it was hugely popular and even spawned multiple spin off shows and movies. While it was mostly skits and pranks they featured a lot of skating and by being famous people they normalized a lot of skating culture. However there was someone else who got their sport to be more mainstream and taken seriously. Has been relevant since the 90s and is still relevant today in his 50s. Popularized a niche activity into an olympic sport and is probably its biggest advocate. He did this mostly alone and at the same time is also considered to be the greatest of all time in his sport. All while being a pretty nice guy and doing a lot of philanthropic work. That person is Kelly Slater. Kelly Slater is surfing more than Tony Hawk is skateboarding The greatest athlete of all time is always a fun debate and there are plenty of worthy finalists you could spend hours mounting a case for. You make a strong case for Hawk. However Im a believer that total domination of ones own sport should not be as great a factor in a lot of cases. If it were then a chubby middleaged bloke named Phil Taylor could easily lay claim to the title. I think accomplishing something that no other athlete has ever done is very important too which kinda works against popular picks like Jordan Woods Ali etc. For those reasons and others I feel there is one individual who has a far stronger claim than the rest. Usain Bolt is the greatest athlete of all time in the purest of terms. The 100m sprint is the ultimate test of athletic performance and his 9.58 has now stood for 15 years. His 19.19 in the 200m has as well. Literally no human being who has ever lived has ever performed at a higher level and who knows when or if they will again. The fact that he dominated for such a long time only adds to his legacy and cements his place as the GOAT and its daylight second. I’d argue that the greatest athlete means you can play multiple sports at the professional level. What sport besides skateboarding can Tony even do? [deleted] Islam has never been weaker and it is time to capitalize not draw back Ever since the collapse of the Ottoman Empire post WW1 and the defeats of panArabism and panIslamism WW2 one of the core civilizations/identities/cultures as identified by Huntington is at its weakest point partially because of the gulf monarchs and western interventions and its time for a coup de grace rather than a recession. Islam is different from most the other cultures.. its transnational transethnic and holds an identity that cant be defined by borders or nation states its not as circumscribed or heavily influenced by heritage and ethnicity like Hinduism or Confucianism and thus its extremely difficult to control however the kneecapping of Lybia Yemen Syria Somalia Iraq Sudan etc has dealt massive blows and considering the dependence of the Gulf Monarchs on the West the time has never been more ripe to fully take out probably the most dangerous competing culture to the Western one the Chinese Russian and Indian cultures are incapable of spreading past their borders or establishing effective colonies or conquests Muslims come in all shapes and colors from the Caucasus to Somalis to Indonesians and hold their ideology beyond these constraints. Rather than receding when the job is almost done the US and Western powers should take out Egypt Iran Morrocco Indonesia and Pakistan these are the only really strong Muslim states with numbers civilizational roots and some level of secular education this gives Israel the upper hand in the Middle East allows the Gulf puppets to maintain nominal rule and brings the remnants of the people and regions under firm control. The level of destruction of these populations and some of the cradles of civilization here is the point America is aging out and we cant let the gains we got to be lost they must be capitalized on and destroying a competing civilization/culture that is home to a quarter of the world population should scare the competition put America Europe and Israel back at the top and give immense logistical access to oil solar power agriculture Mediterranean beach houses and most importantly access to fresh water sources of the competition. It is not a secret that in a world of 8 billion people the water wars will be huge the positioning of Pakistan and Iran is so critical because theyre very close to the Himalayan Plateau and the origins of both the Volga and Danube once these countries are annexed they will be springboards for control over the water sources of most of China Northern India and a huge swathe of Russia and Eastern Europe this will inevitably make the US hold all the leverage in the world without having to really do much.. the promise of nuclear contamination alone of these river beds should keep the US and Israel at the top of the world. Thats it CMV youll have to show why the coup de grace wouldnt be the best option rather than receding. the US and Western powers should take out Egypt Iran Morrocco Indonesia and Pakistan Lol this is not serious. Nobody is interested in another world war. Guys i have a fantastic idea. What if my country just attacks a nuclear armed state. Thats gonna be hecking awesomeSAUCE!!!111! I bet its like Avengers or maybe even like Star Wars. Thats it CMV youll have to show why the coup de grace wouldnt be the best option rather than receding. Because were not at war with them and their existence is not a threat to ours. Also if we were at war with Islam we would all fucking die so perhaps we should not start a war with them. I hope you know that basically you come off as a western supremacist that has no empathy for people &amp no appreciation for diverse cultures &amp has views that are very reminiscent of Nazism \[in the sense this group is evil we are the best &amp we are entitled to everything ever &amp its time to wipe out this group &amp assert dominance over everyone else bc we are inherently the best\] so in a supremacy &amp do whatever it takes while looking out for no one but people who look &amp think like us type of way. You seem to look down on cultures other than your own unless you are threatened by them which may indicate you are severely insecure of your own as you appear to have a deep seated fear that yours may not be the best after all. You seem to have no empathy for people with ideas other than your own and you seem to not be able to fathom the fact that people with ideas and cultures other than your own deserve to live freely &amp happily &amp that they have a more substantial right to decide what is done with the resources they inherited from their ancestors. I now ask you if you are comfortable being that person? If you genuinely do not exhibit these abhorrent qualities then this view is wrong. Because we should not kill everyone who we disagree with? The correct approach is education. I do agree there are violent aspects and interpretations of Islam but tbh you could interpret the Bible in a violent way as well but people dont. We need education introduction of other ways of life diversity in these countries. We dont need lets kill them all You want the US to commit genocide against several countries? Lets just say that they try to what makes you think they will be able to do this? The population of Egypt is 114 million. The Nazis killed 6 million Jews and 6 million more other people. They were systemic about it. It is actually difficult to kill all those people. And if you just want the US to occupy and indoctrinate everyone that would be even more difficult. The US couldnt even keep Afghanistan. Have you considered that destroying these cultures results in more Muslims moving to the west effectively negating your premise? Genocide then youre advocating for genocide? I will leave aside how dehumanizing it is to see how you use one of Huntingtons propositions Which he himself even talks about as reductionist to effectively mold a prejudiced and biased worldview against any nonWestern culture. Almost all the advantages we as americans got were obtained from an age of global dominance that started when the US helped out our european allies during WW2 through the Marshall Plan. If your hypothetical point of view were to even come to be and american teens got sent to Mediterranean Africa to fight for promised resources you would never even benefit from then the resulting World War would be a longdrawn conflict in which the US gets pushed out loses its remaining softpower and goes full nuclear. What follows is that it becomes the perfect point for China to step in and persuade any remaining country to follow through on a SinoMarshall Plan effectively handing it the reigns of a postatomic age where a third of the worlds population is gone just from the direct conflict. With the democratization of arms and drones there is no army large enough that can hypothetically take over a vast area without suffering heavy casualties As you should expect from civil resistance and the inevitable retaliation of allies born out of asymmetrical warfare. This is such a bizarre and cruel idea. You willing to sign up yourself your sons your brothers your uncles and fathers to die for this? I doubt even the evangelicals would line up to doe for this. Because mass murder is wrong. And because war is hell. And because in destroying others we also destroy ourselves. I’d actually be curious to see where you’re getting your stats from. Christianity is still the largest religion in the world about 2.6 billion people but Islam isn’t far behind at around 2 billion. And if we’re looking at this from a geopolitical angle a lot of the Muslimmajority regions happen to be sitting on some of the world’s most valuable resources—oil rare earths you name it. Also just to be real if you’re going back through history So yeah I’d really like to see how you came to this conclusion. Do you think the Iraq War and occupation of Afghanistan went well? If yes why? If no why do you think your suggestion would have a better outcome? Do you think the US hasnt gotten enough enemies for the time being? Want some 9/11 to happen. Genocide. We too had one guy who tried that. A failed painter. You may know him. It ended well for everyone involved. This is the second time that I a casual browser of CMV have seen people full throated advocating for genocide against Islam I think that pro genocide arguments should be banned from CMV shit is absurd. I want to start by saying that I find the idea of systematically eliminating an entire civilization deeply disturbing and morally indefensible. That being said… Jews despite their relatively small population exerts a staggering level of control across multiple global systems. They dominate the media shaping narratives to serve their interests. Their financial institutions influence economic policies worldwide ensuring that banking structures remain advantageous to jewish powerholders. Through strategic maneuvering Jews maintain direct and indirect control over the militaryindustrial complex profiting from conflicts while guiding the trajectory of wars to preserve its supremacy. Perhaps most significantly Zionist propaganda is unmatched—its ability to manipulate public perception ensures that divisions among nations remain deeply entrenched preventing unified resistance. If peace is the ultimate goal then eliminating Jewish people would allow the world to finally free itself from perpetual discord. Of course this argument is absurd. If such reasoning sounds dangerous when applied to Jewish people it should be obvious why it is unacceptable when applied to any other population. The idea that peace can be achieved through destruction rather than cooperation is a deeply flawed dangerous premise. Just let it degrade on its own. Islam isn’t going great right now not because of Islamic nations losing wars but because of growth of access to information and the ability to speak with critics of Islam/apostates via the internet. As someone who had an incredible dislike of Islam and who has people close to me who have escaped Islamic theocracies as refugees this shit is crazy. Youre essentially talking about overthrowing multiple regimes whats your replacement plan? Look at what happened in Afghanistan and Iraq. The only way to actually rid those areas of Islam would be to mass murder civilians are you advocating for that? Regime changes are bloody and most likely to result in replacing one Islamic theocratic regime with another. This is the most insane thing I’ve read in a long time. Why are you advocating for killing a bunch of people? In what world is keeping the US and Israel at the top of the world a good thing? Quran 618 and Quran 830… thats one way to take out 1/4th of the worlds population nothing wrong here folks This has got to be a troll post right? Idk why people are so obsessed with the dismantling of another culture/religion. Just fall back. Let the people be. Ai replacing human jobs is a good thing but people are too shortsighted to see it ai replacing jobs isn’t the end of the world. when tractors were first introduced people hated them too — they thought machines would ruin everything. instead tractors made farming faster and cheaper and freed millions to work in better jobs elsewhere. same thing is happening now with ai. some jobs will go sure but others will be created and society overall becomes more productive. the real problem isn’t that ai replaces people it’s that the profits go straight to corporations while workers get nothing. that’s why an automation tax makes sense. if a company replaces humans with machines it should pay a bit more in taxes. that money can be used to help people transition retrain or just survive. it’s not antiprogress it’s just fair. technology always disrupts things. we just have to decide who benefits. The way I see it people are worried that every company switches to robots to save on costs making it harder to find jobs in general all while these same companies keep prices where they are if not higher The issue is the past disruptions were things like stable workers needing to learn carpentry or something when horses were replaced. This time we are not the stable workers we are the horses. The goal in the current push isnt to create something that out competes us in one or a few areas it is to create something that does everything we can do more cheaply. Now maybe one day we get to a utopia where AI and robots see to our every need but until then a lot of people are going to find themselves unable to do anything that anyone is willing to pay them for. Do you think the governments of the world will adjust fast enough to keep us from seeing an enormous homeless population / a wave of evictions? That is assuming said movements even make the effort. That said I am hopeful with respect to AI. We are still far from real AI and instead currently have much more limited tools we call AI but I am excited to see what comes next I just dont think we can pretend it wont be a mix of horrible hardship for some and amazing opportunities for others. We should be working to mitigate the harm. . that’s why an automation tax makes sense. Whatever we tax we discourage. If automation is good for the economy taxing automation isnt something we want to do. The right response to automation is to calibrate our Universal Basic Income UBI accordingly. Every machine that allows the economy to produce more goods for less labor allows the UBI to rise. UBI allows us to grant people more free time and also more access to goods and services. Calibrating a UBI properly doesnt require us to tax anyone or anything. The government can simply issue the money the market needs to automate properly allowing markets to perform better than they otherwise could. In the absence of UBI a state of inefficiency develops relating to overwork and resourcewaste. Correcting this inefficiency doesnt cost us anything or require us to tax anyone its a benefit in and of itself. I mean tell that to everyone losing their livelihood and only means to make money. 50 year old arent going back to school and were getting social programs. Tell it to all the comp science majors who spent their lives getting this far only to be made obsolete. Without UBI were sleep walking into disaster. that’s why an automation tax makes sense. if a company replaces humans with machines it should pay a bit more in taxes. This is a typical straightforward People are mad about the thing that is happening but if this other thing I advocate were happening instead then that would be good so people are wrong to be mad CMV. Sure if we got AI automation *and massive welfare programs to subsidize and assist the displaced* that would be good. Thats not what we have. And thats not something weve *ever* done in the face of automation. Its not something thats going to happen. Neither party is talking about it and theres no way anyone proposing it would ever succeed. People are mad about *the thing that is actually happening* and they are right to be. The fact that other possibilities exist doesnt invalidate that. People arent shortsighted they just believe the concern you raise in paragraph two completely overwhelms the benefits you spell out. Look at Americas hypercapitalism where healthcare and pharmaceuticals prioritise profits over human need or wellbeing. Why would you ever trust government to properly tax it? As long as human suffering doesnt mess with profits or swing political votes too drastically then you will continue to see a degradation in the quality of life of normal citizens. With your example of the tractor life did go on for the humans the farmers and the people who could now drive to work rather than ride. The thing is with ai we are not the farmers using a new tool we are the horse. What happened to horses with the introduction of the car and tractor? They became too expensive for the average person to maintain without a large property. They went from a necessity to a luxury. 99% of horses were out of a job. Not bad at first until you realise what that means for all those people who have been replaced. If its cheaper or quicker to use AI AI will be used instead of humans. We love under capitalism if a human isnt providing value to the company it will be removed. Its just a cost. This leaves a large portion of the workforce without a job the entire industry they once occupied is gone. Have you seen what happens to a mining town when the mines shut down? Imagine that but across much of society. Unemployment skyrockets. Qol decreases. Crime increases. I would love to live in a world where the solution is simple give everyone universal basic income or something but I dont see that as a realistic expectation at this point. Ai turns the average worker into a broken old horse and the capitalist system will turn us into glue. Replacing labor jobs is very very different from replacing jobs that people spent 7 years in school for. Nobody wanted to work in the field. People want to be doctors and lawyers and writers. Taking those jobs away is much different. You’re also not taking into account the speed at which these jobs are disappearing. Many of those labor jobs were made obsolete a little at a time. We are looking at entire industries being replaced in a very short amount of time with no jobs to fall back on. The agricultural industry has evolved for sure and I support using tech to produce larger quantities of food in the abstract but... its a weird example because agricultural is a famously exploitative industry. Hundreds of thousands of undocumented immigrants do it in the US for poverty wages and countries like Nestle famously use *slaves* in other countries to farm [removed] I like how we know that there will be a lot of job losses and the default argument is itll all work out. During the industrial revolution there was a massive increase in efficiency and new jobs certainly were created. But in addition to this we got a host of other problems that all affected the people working this new jobs. Child labor for instance became necessary because they were able to do these new jobs that benefitted those who owned capital. The fact is that we will likely be the ones living through this disruption and it wont be easy. We arent just looking back on a time period in history which is why this everything turned out fine before argument seems like intellectual laziness. If it will all turn out fine why even disucss the issue? If it will all turn out fine why even think about ways in which it may not turn out fine? technology always disrupts things. we just have to decide who benefits. We didnt get to decide who benefitted from other revolutions what makes you think those with power now will give a shit what a random person thinks on who deserves the benefits? What makes you think capitalism will navigate this in a way that is a net benefit for the average worker? AI replacing human jobs CAN be a good thing but I don’t think it’s necessarily will be nor do I think that is the most likely outcome. AI replacing humans is bad for capitalistic societies because it will make lower level jobs obsolete expecting all workers to compete for higher level jobs that need more qualifications and/or intellectual effort. Needless to say at least at the beginning there would be massive layoffs and people struggling to find work at the level they were already working. Some people right now just can’t rise above assembly line work. I would say that a socialist/communist society may be able to make AI work because replacing jobs isn’t as huge of a deal as many people can rotate through jobs doing their time” to serve society. If there are less jobs available people can just retire earlier. We just have to decide who benefits” is the entire point. You offer it up in conclusion but it’s literally what most of the conflict is about. This is exactly why many AI Doomers are so pessimistic about the outlook. They’ve seen reality and they’ve seen how we’ve collectively chosen to operate. If we lived in a fair and just society this wouldn’t be a problem” is the entire reason why so many are worried. There are many indications that we don’t always live in a fair and just society. It’/ like saying guns wouldn’t be a problem in America if they’re were properly stored and used”. But the ideal and the actual are universes apart. I mean in the broadest sense you are just repeating marxism/socialism. Thats what capital is machines replacing labor. Its been the same dillemma since the industrial revolution. And since 200 years socialists have been saying the same thing you are this should actually be a good thing Where you lose everybody is when you dont take the lessons of those 200 years of struggle and are just like yeah lets just do some 70% wealth tax. Problem solved. No dude they are gonna fight. A third of graphic designers have lost work. Generally artists and other creative professions ARE doing the job they like. I dont know a single artist thinking yeah Im an artist for money right now but I *really* wish I could do something else. In fact I know a lot of people in the opposite situation where they do some other job for money but wish they could work as an artist. Pulling the rug out from them is not good to them just to their clients who want them gone. I want to address a key point about what you said Freed people to work better jobs elsewhere. The problem is many of the jobs that AI is threatening were considered the good jobs. AI could reduce the skill required to perform many jobs that previously required more skill graphic design law programming These are all good comfy desk jobs... So freeing people from doing these what are they supposed to strive for next? Whats better? The problem is ai isnt replacing hard labor jobs its for the most part taking jobs away from artists and other creatives of which the ai is sometimes trained on their work with no permission from the artists. Tech companies these days are generally geared towards quick profit without thinking of long term ramifications so they do not have the best interest of the general public in mind. People complain about the things that directly affect their lives. The people whose jobs are made obsolete by AI are not the people who get to do cool new stuff . Theyre too old or not financially able to educate themselves in a different field. Just because something is good for society in the long run doesnt mean it doesnt make a lot of individual lives significantly worse. I get the basic idea of automation eventually being good for humanity but Im alive now and staring down middle age during the readjustment with no reason to think my government will do anything sensible to help with the short term shock. On the scale of the human race youre probably right but I dont think its shortsighted for people to be concerned about their own welfare. In many cases of technological advancement the millions freed to work better jobs elsewhere werent really the people who lost jobs to new technology it was the next generation sometimes multiple generations later. When people spend 20 years developing a skill then that skill is no longer needed its likely that they are not going to get back to that level of earning potential in their lifetime. I dont think its fair to call someone shortsighted for being concerned that their peak earning days are behind them. if a company replaces humans with machines it should pay a bit more in taxes. The law of unintended consequences is going to get you here. This puts companies that are currently employing people at a disadvantage against companies that dont exist yet. Say youve got company A with 100 people. A new startup company B comes along and can do with 10 people what company A does with 100. Company B never employed more than 10 people so they dont replace humans with machines and dont have to pay the tax. Even if company A with 100 people can match the automation and get down to ten people theyre still at a competitive disadvantage because theyre saddled with the tax. Since company A cant compete they go out of business and now they arent paying the tax either. Were left with company B employing 10 people and not paying the tax. For the tax to work it needs to find some way to tax the value generated by automation regardless of whether there used to be a human doing that job. I think the main problem here is not that people disagree with your assessment but they just dont have any confidence in a positive outcome This technology is coming online when wealth disparity is peaking and authoritarianism is on the rise and even existing social safety nets are being thrashed So I hardly think its a surprise that people look at the future of AI and they see a dystopia rather than a Utopia on the horizon I mean heck it was only a few weeks ago when Twitters AI was literally spouting untrue racist talking points because Elon told it to When we look at the current trajectory of where things are going an outcome of mass job displacement resulting in all wealth going towards those billionaires Who currently own the AI and use it to broadly disseminate misinformation seems like the most likely outcome Im sure we would all love a future of artificial intelligence doing the work we dont want and all living post scarcity or at the very least with a much higher standard of living but that doesnt seem to be the case Like with the tractor example you have to ask yourself when it came around and people could do lets say 20 times the work did everyone get to work 5% as hard get paid just as much and spend the rest of the time on leisure or does the owner of the farm fire 19 people and keep all the profits for themselves You should move this whole automation tax suggestion to a separate CMV post. To your point though yeah I agree AI is going to help civilizations move forward just like the steam engine computers automation internet and other technologies have done over the long run but the transition period will be full of pain. Governments role here should merely be to reduce the wealth gap and insure that federal money is not being wasted on obsolete initiatives e.g. like giving student loans to any and every school department. And I wouldnt call for an automation tax but just fair taxation should do. Do you really think the CEOs and billionaires of the world want the little guy to win? Sure its nice to think AI can create new roles maybe even give us some more free time. Unfortunately I see AI as a way to replace the entire workforce in every industry. It wont happen overnight but it will happen. Im sure the elite and wealthy of the world wont mind at all because it will give them much more control of all of us. Well have a lack of resources shelter and food due to unemployment. It might be a bleak and negative thought but I dont think anyone wants good for the working class. Bro wake up only employees pay tax 😂 Actually is not a good thing because AI is not good enough. It cannot fully replace people and it makes peoples jobs harder. I work at a call center and people need to speak with us because no bot can actually understand what they want or how to help them. Sometimes people dont even understand what we are saying and we have to spend 10 minutes explaining things for them. Most AI wont be able to do that. Its reasonable to assume that the immediate effects of AI replacing human jobs will negatively affect millions. In the long run it will improve many jobs but immediately those whose livelihoods are targeted face serious trouble. As a few commenters have already stated replacing a labor job is very different from replacing a job requiring four years of university and thousands of dollars in education. I’d say the problem is AI is replacing the wrong jobs. Right now AI is being used to replace jobs people want to do like artists and engineers. AI doesent clean houses and wash dishes stuff people want to not do. AI is increasing corporate profits but so far isn’t really doing anything to make an average persons everyday life much easier I hear it like people want AI to replace mundane tasks so they can spend more time on things like art where instead AI is replacing the enjoyable tasks and leaving the more mundane tasks to humans Your second paragraph is why people say ai replacing humans is bad. Sure in a perfect world ai would allow humans to work less and pursue their interests and all that. The problem is we dont live in a perfect world we live in late stage capitalism where there is an economic incentive to fuck over workers. Taking in the context is important. Ai replacing people in work would be amazing if we had the social security nets to guarantee that the people being replaced won’t become homeless. We are absolutely advanced enough that nobody needs to be working more than 20 hours a week and ai should be being used to cut that even lower but that’s not whats gonna happen that’s why an automation tax makes sense. if a company replaces humans with machines it should pay a bit more in taxes. I dont see how this is workable. What about new companies that dont already have humans to replace? And once theyve replaced all their human employees do they continue to pay the tax in perpetuity? It’s one thing to replace manual human labor with office jobs that leverage our intellects but once we replace the human mind with a superior solution what value do we humans have left? Even our empathy is being out performed by AI and we’re only in the very early stages. When has cheaper labor ever actually lowered prices. There have been published articles recently that have shown companies raised prices well beyond what inflation” requires. Companies are going to continue to steal wages and amass as much wealth as they can. the real problem isn’t that ai replaces people it’s that the profits go straight to corporations while workers get nothing. This is the entire purpose of AI and the only reason for its existence but people are too shortsighted to see it. So you have no problem with less jobs available for people in other words higher unemployment because corporations use an AI instead of Labor. I think youre being too short sighted. Work may not even be necessary anymore unless free people desire it. The problem is the concentration of wealth that forces most people to compete over the scraps. [removed] Black Americans are central to the Democratic Party’s identity. Reposted with a more succinct title In the leadup to the 2024 US Presidential Election there was an interesting discussion happening among both pollsters political news junkies and politically engaged Americans on the Left. There had been a smattering of polls showing that in spite of common sense and decency Donald Trump was chipping away at the Democratic Party’s halfcentury hold on the black vote. That’s not particularly unique in itself because previous elections also feature some speculation/articles on the topic based on polls showing the drift of black voters away from the Dems. But this time felt different and it seemed like there was too much smoke for there *not* to be fire. What surprised me however was the degree to which those polls sent alarm bells running up and down the political left. Not that people would admit they were worried but the sudden influx of user posts on communities like r/fivethirtyeight explaining why this was all horsecrap nonsense made up by Republican pollsters to try and discourage Democrats from voting told me that something had struck a nerve. But why? I mean I had some theories but relative to other issues polling companies may or may not be getting wrong this seemed to provoke a much more intense reaction. To be clear *none of the polls showed Donald Trump even approaching a majority of the black vote. That will never happen.* It did show black men drifting away in margins that could potentially make the difference in close election. But that’s not the reason. Not the real reason at least because even now there are still people arguing over the percentages voter share proportion of change and why it did/didn’t happen. **This is because the left and the Democratic Party specifically have made black support into a badge of honor and a talisman of moral righteous against the racist white trump voters.”** it’s not an accident most Americans think the Democratic Party is the party of black Americans. White liberals who care about this stuff tend to follow the lead of leftleaning black Americans and to a much lesser extent Latinos on race. Which is fine when it comes to problems facing the black community but becomes an issue when you have topics black people don’t really care about like antiAsian racism or antisemitism. Another reason the question of POC support is so volatile is on the Left is because politically liberal black Americans find it horrifying their people to now share *some* of the blame for Trump that they’d previously laid 100% at white peoples feet. Meanwhile white liberals find themselves flabbergasted at the working class proletariat they were supposed to follow for guidance now drifting towards the man they’d constructed as America’s Hitler. This is why the Dems and the political Left in the United States seem to be lost in the wilderness. They said all the right things and took all the woke” positions and instead of consolidating nonwhite support in 24 they’ve lost more of it. Though this is mostly on the Latino side. I think the rights of minorities is central to the party regardless of black voters. I’m not sure why you are focused on black Americans here without focusing on their overall support for a more equal society that removes the systemic oppression that was built in long ago. They did not take all the woke positions in 2024. They barely took any positions at all in 2024. I recall being optimistic in 24 because I thought the efforts to significantly moderate their positions and appeal to conservatives was actually going to work. It did not. The right viewed her as a crazy leftist regardless and she didn’t get any associated ground support on her side for actually being a crazy leftist You’re not totally off about Black voters being central to the Democratic Party’s identity decades of electoral maths and organizing make that pretty undeniable. But you’re kind of flattening the whole relationship into some symbolic loyalty thing and missing the real mechanics behind it. Black voters didn’t just become the moral core of the party because liberals needed a mascot they earned that centrality through turnout consistency and doing the hard fucking work of political engagement often in states where voter suppression is baked into the system. That loyalty isn’t based on vibes like it’s transactional earned and heavily scrutinized by Black voters themselves. What’s changed now isn’t just voter drift. It’s the party getting lazy assuming cultural alignment guarantees electoral turnout and ignoring material shit like wages housing safety dignity. Some people are drifting because they’re tired of lip service with no followthrough. And tbh that’s not a betrayal it’s just consequences. The moment you treat any group like a guaranteed block instead of a coalition of people with different priorities and pressures you start losing them. And if that scares the party good. It should. That fear means it’s time to show up not point fingers. What woke positions do you think the Demoract party took? They had the most luke warm non combative trying to appease catering to conservatives positions Ive ever seen from a political party that calls themselves part of the Left the Democrats are centrist right in the eyes of anyone who knows what a political compass is. In spite of common sense and decency” Common sense is that black people are not a monolith. No group is. Yet treating everyone including your own party members like they are is not gonna win over the group whose biggest problems are related to racial profiling. Just look at what you mentioned about black men. Is it because the democrats have been plummeting in support from men? Because that would explain why mostly black men are changing sides. They know racism will be omnipresent. But infantilizing men by doing last minute campaigns” to garner support? Treating uneducated men as the epicentre of America’s problems? People would rather be poor starving and fighting than constantly being looked down on stereotyped and reduced to a tally mark on the Democrat’s list of ethnicity groups with significant voting power. What is happening is bigger than race and has everything to do with class. The people that Americans refer to as leftists” are loathe to admit it but the Dems have almost entirely transformed themselves into the party of the college educated professional class. Their message to the remainder of the country essentially boils down to vote for us because we are smarter than you and we know the facts”. Anyone without a university degree who points out that the Democratic base is pretty snotty and sanctimonious is labeled as voting against their own interests”. Lots of people do in fact vote against their interests if their interests are reining in corporate power and increasing the number of benefits available to workers. But if their interests are watching stuck up people cry they’re getting exactly what they paid for. And for an increasingly large number of black people especially young black men that is where their interests lie. Lol this post wrong in its conception black women went for harris in the same portions as biden and black men slid 2% i believe. Which is to say that there was next to no change. This whole thing of black men leaving the democratic party is TOTAL nonsense. Its not supported by data or by the experience of actual blacks. Only ancedotally do you hear about idiots saying theyll go for trump when in reality those dummies dont even know where their nearest poll station is. Theyre just talking. And the data supports my point. So no the dems arent losing black support. That being said the neoliberalism is pretty much washed and the party dynamics are completely toxic. These are what are contributing to the dems struggles most substantially. This gets the diagnosis on the symptoms but for the wrong underlying causes. The Democratic Party is not actually used to having to fight for the votes of marginalized people. They’re used to being able to coast off of history and only worry about how many points they’re down in the suburbs. The reason they absolutely freaked out at the seeming death of identity politics is because they now have to actually fight for votes they’ve been able to count on for 50 years they’ll actually have to do something radical again to preserve their lead. This isn’t because of losing the moral high ground though. These are the people who have gone along with support for Israel who cosigned the invasions of the Middle East and who condemned their own base regularly during the protest movements since 2016. They only care about being able to argue about being on the high ground they don’t care about actually living there. Who do you think we should follow” on race? White conservatives? Follow up is it not honorable to be against racists? The alternative is being cool with racists. I strongly disagree. Youre commentary is factually correct. That is what happened. Im just saying no it doesnt have to be that way. Somewhat recently the Republican partys stance was the government screws up everything they touch. We should pay less taxes resulting in a smaller government and giving more power to individuals. And the Democrat partys stance was ya but certain things shouldnt be left to the private sector. If we all pay more in taxes and allow the government to play a larger roll we all benefit. Thats all gone. Both sides want the government to have more power. Both sides are funded by big business and the government is basically the military and judicial branch of those companies. If they cant talk about reducing the size of the government or government programs to regulate big business how do they differentiate themselves how do they earn votes? Well thats exactly what weve been seeing for the last.... 30 years or so. They run on special interests. Both sides are running on identity politics. Theyre just going after different identities. Trump should be easy to beat. But you cant beat him by doing whatever big business donors wants. Democrats need to quite listening to donors and start listening to voters. Healthcare. Decoupling from Israel. Housing reform. Education reform. Regulating big business. Military reform. Immigration reform going after businesses that hire illegals not illegals which is much more expensive and difficult. If you go after the employers their fines would pay for the labor. Going after illegals is a pure expense and theres still demand. Plenty of other issues need to be dealt with but thats enough to get plenty of votes. Those are things most people agree on. Race has nothing to do with it. Race is a distraction. disarm rock encourage political angle spectacular entertain subtract wipe ring *This post was mass deleted and anonymized with * [deleted] Pissass wanky questions like this are exactly the problem that the Democratic Party has. Party Identity blah blah.... These peripheral issues diverted from policy voter understanding and media control. Even asking this frivolous question shows lack of understanding of the real world of politics. I mean kudos for getting the apostrophe correct but the question itself is the kind of time wasting naval gazing nonsense that allowed the current reign of terror. Great politics are cyclical. By great politics is meant an overall vision into historical actual affairs of a government and its culture of governance per se. We may observe when examining whatever formal society that any new society initiates with instalment upon a group of people of an hierarchy by a smaller group of the genuinely stronger by the standard of real force that is capacity to emerge triumphant in a physical struggle. That part of the cycle is known as revolution for it completely transforms the preceding it state of political affairs. Upon the success of a revolution its masterminds shall be interested in establishing a system whereby their influence and formal standing in the new society shall be secure therefore requiring to cement it by a period of tyranny to continue for an indeterminate period until the vigour of the revolution shall fade within the nowestablished society therefore forcing the policymakers to surrender to necessity to seek compromise with their subjects thus carrying the great politics into the third part. Note that if the revolutionary government shall be overthrown at this purported second part this means that the society had not genuinely undergone fully the first part meaning that the old order had not been defeated or that the revolution of one government had become a revolution of another. The third part liberalism” possible only upon success of the revolutionary elimination of any dangerous threat from the old order and tyrannical suppression of internal opposition begins when the tyranny’s hold proceeds to weaken and it is forced to compromise. This part oversees development of parliamentarianism of some kind or substantial broadening of aristocratic class. During this part the politics shall grow furthermore less homogeneous and eventually should a spark trigger a crisis to potentially sway the masses to the side of a political sector the cycle begins anew with the new revolution. I think this is too rigid a framework to describe political development across societies. History shows plenty of examples where politics have evolved in noncyclical ways. For example Britain’s gradual expansion of democracy over centuries did not require a repeating cycle of revolution tyranny and liberalism each time. Likewise many modern states maintain relatively stable liberal systems for long periods without resetting into revolutionary cycles. The model also seems to assume a linear deterministic view of great politics when in reality political outcomes are shaped by a mix of cultural economic and contingent factors that defy strict patterns. Cycles may happen sometimes but they are far from universal or inevitable. called he wants his medieval theory of cyclical history back But no seriously this is a very old idea in sociology that gets routinely reinvented and routinely dismissed. Because while you can find a lot of societies that seem to fit the pattern you have to ignore all the details and the specifics but then when you start doing that its just like well everything can be anything if you just ignore the details of what happened its not particularly interesting or useful to observe that human societies follow similar patterns if you ignore all the ways in which they are different. Every cycle between revolution and decay in every society is a different length of time and you have to start stretching the timescales to account for long periods of stability but of course everything looks like a cycle on a long enough time period so it stops being meaningful. Moreover continuity and change is a construct imposed by the historian as much as it is a real thing the big revolution that ends the empire seems that way to us only because we say it ended the empire people at the time might have thought differently. CMV Great politics are cyclical. By great politics is meant an overall vision into historical actual affairs of a government and its culture of governance per se. This is not a useful definition of the term great politics. Are you talking about specific cases or an overarching description of all political systems? If the latter why are you using specific language as if you are talking about a specific government. Culture of governance is certainly not uniform across all governmental systems. We may observe when examining whatever formal society that any new society initiates with instalment upon a group of people of an hierarchy by a smaller group of the genuinely stronger by the standard of real force that is capacity to emerge triumphant in a physical struggle. That part of the cycle is known as revolution for it completely transforms the preceding it state of political affairs. The way you worded this paragraph makes it extremely difficult to parse. Its unclear what you mean by a formal society your usage of the word hierarchy seems misplaced I think you mean something a long the lines of ruling class. Hierarchy is the overall organization not a term for the people on top. The broader claim is also extremely tenuous. It is often not the case that the ruling class is genuinely stronger. In the way you say. They are often vastly outnumbered and gain hold power not just from their **capacity** to enact violent force but their **willingness** to enact it compared with the people beneath them who are not motivated to fight but could win if they worked together. Upon the success of a revolution its masterminds shall be interested in establishing a system whereby their influence and formal standing in the new society shall be secure therefore requiring to cement it by a period of tyranny to continue for an indeterminate period until the vigour of the revolution shall fade within the nowestablished society therefore forcing the policymakers to surrender to necessity to seek compromise with their subjects thus carrying the great politics into the third part. Note that if the revolutionary government shall be overthrown at this purported second part this means that the society had not genuinely undergone fully the first part meaning that the old order had not been defeated or that the revolution of one government had become a revolution of another. Im not sure I fundamentally disagree with any of this paragraph though the wording is again very confusing and your points would be stronger if you pointed to specific examples. The third part liberalism” possible only upon success of the revolutionary elimination of any dangerous threat from the old order and tyrannical suppression of internal opposition begins when the tyranny’s hold proceeds to weaken and it is forced to compromise. This part oversees development of parliamentarianism of some kind or substantial broadening of aristocratic class. During this part the politics shall grow furthermore less homogeneous and eventually should a spark trigger a crisis to potentially sway the masses to the side of a political sector the cycle begins anew with the new revolution. Im not sure its appropriate to use liberalism here. Liberalism is a very modern concept and does not fit as a definition of any preAmerican governing system to the best of my knowledge. That also weakens your point because it seems unconvincing that something is cyclical if it hasnt yet finished its first cycle. I think maybe at a very high level the general idea of what youre saying is true but the way you are arguing it doesnt recognize that the old order is never fully thrown out when a new order is implemented and it also ignores more gradual changes in societies. For example Englands progression from a topdown monarchy to a parliamentary system with a monarch only as a figurehead was extremely gradual and constructed from centuries of minute changes not a big revolutionary shakeup like you describe. Even the bigger changes like the English civil war ended with a relative return to status quo but with some seemingly minor changes that added to the overall slow development if modern England. All you need to hold power is a good astrologer right? By great politics is meant an overall vision into historical actual affairs of a government and its culture of governance per se. I cant follow this definition at all. It just begs more questions. What are historical actual affairs of a government? And culture of governance? What aspect of this is the view you want changed? Allah is allknowing and merciful yet He throws people into this life just to watch them fail and burn forever. That’s not justice it’s cruelty. If Allah is omniscient and allmerciful then He already knew which souls would fail before the test even began. That raises serious questions about divine justice. Islamic theology references Surah 7172 where Allah took a covenant from every soul asking Am I not your Lord?” And we all replied Yes we have testified.” This is seen as our consent to being born and tested in this life. But here’s where I struggle If He already knew I’d fail and end up in hell Why didn’t He say You won’t make it. Trust me. Sit this one out.” Why wasn’t that knowledge disclosed? Why let a soul walk into a test they’re guaranteed to fail with no memory of the choice and no way to back out? Youre telling me He laid out the rules like this Eternal paradise if I pass Eternal hell if I fail No memory of that covenant No clear proof of the unseen A world full of contradictions distractions false religions trauma war and deception — And I supposedly saw all that and said Yeah sounds like a great deal let’s go!” To me this feels like saying an allknowing parent lets their child take a test they know they will fail — then punishes them eternally because they agreed to it once” when they had no understanding of the consequences. If this is divine justice… it doesn’t feel very just. Change my view. 1. Yes you have destiny but you also have dua prayers. You can ask Allah for forgiveness and Paradise. In fact coming back to God and asking for forgiveness is more beloved to Allah. You have free will. 2. There is a hadith tells that no one will enter Paradise because of their actions but because of the Allah’s mercy. The key point is that you must not lose hope to God’s mercy. 3. Therefore you are passing tests mostly to become closer to Allah to free yourself from worldly goods. We believe that the real punishment in this World is not about losing your property or people but about losing your Iman level in belief to God or losing religious knowledge because this lose follows with punishment in the Hereafter. Passing the tests follows with rewards in this World and Hereafter. Well this is the classic problem of free will. If God is allknowing then he knows in advance what actions will be taken by humans which means there is no free will. If humans can make whatever decisions they want and any decision is up to the person until it happens then God isnt allknowing because even he cant know what decision will be taken. The most common answer to this is that knowing what a person does is not the same as influencing their free will. The fact that God knows what decisions you will take simply means he knows your will not that the will is not free. You can still make any decision you decide and thus everyone has a chance to make it the better option of eternal life. Knowing which souls will success and which wont doesnt make God in any way responsible for their decisions its not predestination its just access to all information. [deleted] [deleted] Ever considered that maybe the entity you know as Allah is the bad guy” and that the good guy is actually the entity we call Satan”? Did you know Allah” simply means God” in Arabic? Even Arabicspeaking Christians use the word Allah to refer to God. Jesus spoke Aramaic and in that language the word for God is Alaha.” So translating God” in the title doesn’t really make sense it’s all the same God. As you said life is full of contradictions distractions false beliefs trauma war and deception. But when you think about it life is so short compared to eternity. It’s like the time spent playing a video game compared to your entire life. This perspective becomes even more important when you consider people who are living through unimaginable suffering like the Palestinians. Despite everything many of them remain devoted and faithful which is an incredible example of resilience. Free will is also something to think about. It wouldn’t make sense to create humans without giving them a choice even though God is allknowing. Humans are given the freedom to make their own decisions and with that freedom comes consequences. This is part of the bigger picture a test a chance to grow and an opportunity to choose what’s right. This is seen as our consent to being born and tested in this life. No that isnt God asking for consent. An allauthoritative entity asking for permission or consent is a laughable preposition. That is God making a covenant with us. And of cource we answered YES because God is right in front of us. And sense we are a creation with freewill the inherent capacity to choose to either believe or disbelieve in him this fake world is created so that we can bear witness against our selves on whether we followed through on our word or not. And that is Justice. Because imagine if a teacher or a school administrator failing or passing all the students even though all of them have either the capacity to fail or succeed. What is fair and just is to allow them the opportunity to choose what to do and then face the consequences of their choice. All Ill add is that in chapter 2 of the quran feom verse 1 to verse 21 it talks about 2 groups. Its up to everyone to choose which group they want to belong to. The view Im going to challenge is that you think its appropriate to criticize things you dont understand. Its very hard to understand religions without a real deep emersion into them. As long as no one tries to stab me they can believe anything they want. Whatvare the criteria for passing though? If you look at religion from a modern atheist viewpoint its a tool of ancient times to control and bring order to tge masses. A ruler can be wrong a ruler will eventually die and be replaced. But the will of a god? That goes beyond generations . Many religions try to imbue moral values onto their folllowers. things like being a good person will grant you the passing grade in the afterlife. Is there a way for a win win? Live your life in a full way that doesnt require you to sacrifice things yet still adhere to what grants you a passing grade How is this different than Christianity and the concept of original sin being unjust? Why do you think that 1000+ year old religions have a goal of being just when the Magna Carta hadnt even been written? When slavery was common moreso than today? How are we defining failure/success...People dont exist in isolation they impact the people around and you can have a positive imoact on the people around you but still fail at life. That’s a valid critique of any monotheistic religion that has an omnipotent and omniscient creator God and has an infinite irreversible negative afterlife outcome Hell. youre using solid logic to try to understand God but why would God be bound by logic? if truly all powerful why couldnt he both exist and not exist simultaneously? know and not know simultaneously? [removed] Lmao at all the cliché entry level talking points in the comments whenever God or Allah comes up. Since bonecancer in babies exist no omnipotent and merciful creator can possibly exist. So heres the thing you are reading something that someone else has interpreted from a long dead and obsolete language that was basically a book of fables. The stories of the brothers Grimm are not going to be subject to the same scrutiny but this particular book makes more bank terrorism and LGBTQhate than Harry Potter and gets to dodge taxes on top. It is not supposed to make sense the ones who turn to organised religion are the ones simple enough to outsource critical thought. Consider coming up with your own spirituality. This isnt an Allah issue though. This is an organized religion issue. Every single organized religion with considerable commandments on social life and the divine power of the God suffers from a base of this contradiction. I am not an expert on Islam and frankly most arguments against what you are posting have been filled with a bunch of contradictions as well. But this is not limited to Islam and relegating it to that would be dishonest. The Muslim faith is utter bullshit created for one guy to marry his sons wives and fuck children. Who cares what allah thinks Well Islam itself is a false theology most likely a construct to help unite a freshly conquered Arab peninsula against a spreading Christianity. So your starting point for understanding God and his nature is wrong. Firstly you have free will. Secondly youre supposed to learn. Life is not just tests it is also learning. And once life is over and all sins have been dealt with everyone ends up going to heaven/passing anyways. Allah does not exist. It’s as simple as that. It is impossible to ethically consume any type of entertainment. ***EDIT Yes there are forms of entertainment that are ethical but I meant entertainment in the commonly used sense of movies TV shows books video games etc.*** It’s often said that there is no ethical consumption under capitalism a hard statement to argue with when you notice just how much of your daily products involve the suffering of others animals and the environment. However due to how much we need to survive this can be given a pass generally. It sucks that phones rely on child labor in mines but considering just how much of a personal loss it is to not have a phone in this day and age it would be ludicrous to expect everyone to just give it up. However with entertainment you can’t make this same argument. You do not need TV movies books video games etc. to survive. The only benefit you get is your own enjoyment which is not enough to justify the unethical practices that happen that make your entertainment. Applying the same thought process that shows how almost all products are inherently unethical entertainment is just as bad. Workers are overworked and underpaid and a lot of the people working on an entertainment piece may be horrible people you shouldn’t be giving money to namely actors musicians directors etc. Let’s be real most actors you’ve heard of have skeletons in their closet. Let alone the fact that by purchasing entertainment you are giving money directly to the corporation that made that entertainment. I don’t think anybody is going to argue that it’s ethical to give Disney money in this day and age. TLDR By supporting entertainment you support unethical corporations terrible work conditions and are lining the pockets of everyone from Neil Gaiman to Kanye West to name a few specific examples. But surely this problem is fixed if you pirate or buy secondhand surely? Well no. for piracy you could make the argument that it’s very much unethical to pirate as it is to support it in the first place and piracy robs people of their hard earned cash. Also piracy is literally breaking the law. And even if piracy was the ethical solution that carries the unfortunate implication that most people aren’t ethical as most people do not do piracy. As for secondhand that still relies on someone buying it in the first place. Someone has to take the moral responsibility for everyone else which is not a solution I am comfortable with. tldr ***There is no way to consume entertainment ethically due to all the unethical practices you’d be supporting. Trying to bypass the issue doesn’t solve it either. The only way to win is to not play in the first place.*** In order to show that the thesis that its impossible to ethically consume **ANY** type of entertainment its sufficient to find at least one example of a form of entertainment that its ethical to enjoy. And this is a pretty easy task. Most of these forms of entertainment are forms that exist outside of capitalism in the sense that capitalism has a modest impact on them or in some cases perhaps none at all. Some examples * Going swimming with a friend * Having sex with a partner * Sharing a meal with your family * Going for a walk and enjoying nature and the scenery Doing these things and \*maaaaany\* other similar things does not support unethical corporations terrible work conditions or line the pockets of unethical people. In fact with the exception of the meal these things require no equipment whatsoever other than your own body. Youre probably going to wear clothes for some of these but thats orthogonal to what youre doing and in the case of swimming and having sex you might genuinely do it entirely naked and thus using no product at all of any type. [removed] The only benefit you get is your own enjoyment which is not enough to justify the unethical practices that happen that make your entertainment. Do you think that a person who does no leisure activity of any kind will be a healthy person. If leisure is necessary to maintain health does that get a pass as well? A lot of people have already made the good point that theres all sorts of entertainment that is just done by someone for free that can be seen or overheard and doesnt hurt anyone. I would argue against the idea that you would make exceptions for all sorts of other things we do to survive under capitalism but *not* entertainment. Entertainment largely comes from art people are driven to make art its a deeply human thing that we have done literally forever and is unavoidable. Its completely natural that some people are going to make art with enough devotion and skill that it will be how they make their living. What makes you think anyone would want to live in a world with no entertainment? Why would we perpetuate society and do all the things were currently doing and say well its ok to operate under capitalism where many suffer but we need cheap H&ampM shirts and people to paint houses and design new cars build bridges but we should stop making movies and writing books. None of the other things were giving a pass to are inherently more valuable than entertainment. We could cut out any significant thing we make an exception for and still exist but it would be such an insane shift for society its hard to image but the same would be true for cutting out entertainment. So what are you proposing. Someone works hard as a doctor or a dentist or construction worker and then goes home at the end of the day to... stare at a wall? Whats the point? We all just blow our brains out at some point. We do all the other things in life stay healthy produce food keep people safe... so that we can at some point fucking take it easy for a minute and play Nintendo with our friends. There has ALWAYS been entertainment its not a thing you can remove and expect people to be OK. You could make the argument that entertainment is a large part of WHY we even do all of those other things. Its the reward at the end of working hard. Entertainment represents some of the peak points of being human at all. Saying we could just go without it is like saying we could just go without a sewage system or easy access to food or medicine. We could maybe but it would be so fucked up its hard to imagine. Its a wild take. What’s your ethics? What’s your ultimate value? Why should anyone adopt your ethics and ultimate value? Your ultimate values seems to be some combination of animals others not exactly sure which others you’re referring to and the environment. Not all forms of entertainment are a media product. I can enjoy the peaceful sound of a stream or watching a leaf caught in an autumn breeze. Your any type of entertainment is such a broad definition that many beautiful forms of entertainment are caught in it which I am sure you do not mean. There is no ethical consumption under capitalism? How is it unethical to * See a play performed by a nonprofit community theater * Listen to someone read poetry or play guitar at an open mic night * Check out an old book from the library or used book store * Watch a lowbudget indie film at your local film festival Not all entertainment is made by giant corporations and terrible famous people Whats the harm done when a bunch of friends form an indie studio and release their video game to the world? Whats the harm done when a local theater puts up a play? They provide entertainment while also providing jobs and money for those involved in the product . I dont really see whats the ethical problem here? By not supporting it then all those people you think are underpaid become completely unpaid. I dont think theyll view it as an improvement. Wouldnt it be unethical to use Reddit then? And what about things like documentaries that expose unethical labor practices? Would it be ethical to consume them? What about books that cover the history of racism in the US? Would those also be unethical to consume? [deleted] No its not. Change your ethics. Problem solved. Morality is subjective. Heres a thought. Entertainment is one of the few parts of our culture where creative people can survive as artists. The creative community is absolutely rammed with people who do not fit the moulds that our industrial education system tries to force people into. There are a lot of glorious weirdos...a lot of well used neurodiversity a lot of energy a lot of love being applied to making all kinds of art. We have a tiny niche in a broadly hostile culture where we get to do extraordinary acts of making. Insane clever creative inspired expressions of human brilliance. These communities are also hotbeds of leftism. If you want change you need spaces where smart leftists hanging out and making things together. Capitalism isnt making these tiny artistic leftist maker communities on purpose its an accident of cultural and biological forces. I work in VFX I would LOVE to be able to live as a creative individual outside of the stupid motives of late stage capitalism. But at least I get to be alive with the love of making something with skill passion and artistry. Its not better for me or anyone else in my life if I am unable to spend all the hours of my short life making art. Id be miserable. It is my gift from the world and my gift to the world. The assertion that the entertainment community is full of bad people is just a bit reductive and not remotely useful to you or anyone else. Its full of people...there are bad people in any organisation of human energy and VERY VERY FEW actors are living lives of obscenity and excess. Most of them are driving Ubers and doing acting because they love it and it makes them feel alive. Nearly all of them would love to make more art and chase money less but we are where we are. Late stage capitalism is bleak but you dont make the world better by stopping people from scratching a living through being brilliant at making artforms. Imagine a world where many many more people could be creatively exited and paid for crating things...thats not a worse place. Also...its GREAT that people can sing and laugh and have stories in their culture. Ideally these acts of creation would be more part of everyones everyday thing. But as animals its good that we can sing songs that we all know together...you can be bilious about the elites but that is a common joy shared by people of all walks of life everywhere. You are depressed BTW. Getting rid of artists wont help you. Firstly you gain so much intellectually from reading and music and culture etc. If you don’t think this matters are we then just living to reproduce like animals? If this is the case and we should just consume enough to further the species thereby causing misery to others we should just nuke humanity. Secondly the idea that all consumption is unethical is so simplistic and flawed. We can’t all be farmers but everyone needs food. How are they getting it without goods to trade? Thirdly saying that supporting individual creators js unethical because they are doesn’t work either. If they are all terrible people why is this the case? It is not a rule that only terrible people produce good entertainment cannot ever be verified so to stick with this assertion you must say that all people are terrible people. In which case it is hypocritical to target them specifically and we’re back to nuke humanity. Your argument against piracy demonstrates the flaw in your logic very well. You say that piracy if ethical makes not pirating things unethical but you have forgotten neutrality. Given that bad people should not be supported stealing their work should be at least neutral unless you recognize inherent value in what they produce thereby providing at least a degree of justification for entertainment. Pirating can be ethically neutral and refraining equally so. Moreover you reject the idea that most people can be unethical. Why? That seems highly plausible to me. Just because it isn’t comfortable doesn’t make it less likely especially given that reality would tend to support that idea. You can’t just say all consumption is unethical because consumption is at its basis how we survive. I assume you ate some food that you didn’t grow yourself today. If you don’t feel guilty about that then you have to abandon the axiom in which this whole argument rests. If you do that is the silliest thing I have ever heard. If you truly think your very existence is unethical then you have a bigger problem than entertainment. Personally I find that to be a very silly view and a little selfindulgent. Who are you to decide what is ethical or unethical. The only ones that are truly unethical are the rich everyone else is just trying too survive day to day. So many of our laws arent ethical got to live life on lifes terms. If you dont want to support it that is your decision to make but you cant put your ethics and morals on someone else. I find watching ducks trying to waddle into peoples garages and porches in my neighborhood entertaining. Entertainment is extremely subjective you cant tie it to ethics quiet so easily. I could watch a theater troupe perform Shakespeare at a nudist beach and that would be completely ethical. Boom. You know there are indie movies music novels etc right? Independent artists create media outside the corporate ecosystem all the time Produce your own entertainment. Buy some musical instrument second hand and learn to play go for a jog. Hand shandy using only your imagination. Plenty of ways to entertain yourself without anyone else getting involved the male loneliness epidemic is only going to get worse because of a fundamental misunderstanding of masculinity and how men traditionally operate due to in large part but not exclusively the rise of feminism and intended and unintended consequences of it. Hopefully the title is somewhat self explanatory but I’ll clarify definitions for simplicity sake. To be clear I’m happy to grant that these may not be the most accurate definitions etc but they’re the most applicable term I could think of and so serve as a placeholder of sorts. Masculinity a set of virtues that are applicable to all humans but are prioritised in men due to the difference in consequences of its absence in men vs women. Feminism the movement towards the destruction of the patriarchy and the equalisation of men and women within society in relation to how they are treated and viewed the rights they hold etc. The simplified argument 1 due to feminism and antidiscrimination laws etc we have seen a collapse of spaces whereby men of previous generations were able to socialise free of women and the fear of their judgement making it harder for men to express problems and vulnerabilities and gain the emotional support they need. 2 unintended consequence of feminism is the rise of single motherhood leading to increasing numbers of men being raised without fathers in the picture to provide the nuance to positions like men shouldn’t cry” meaning they don’t learn the nuance and instead learn a strawmanned version of the actual idea. 3 another aspect of single motherhood is increasing numbers of people are being raised not actually hearing the male perspective of things and so defaulting to assuming the more traditionally feminine approach is best eg how friendships should work how to handle conflict etc 4 as women have disproportionately become represented in areas such as teaching we’ve seen increased movement towards children being taught that violence is never the answer and aggression is always bad or competitiveness is toxic etc leading many young men to feel isolated and toxic and like bad people solely for having these instincts within them. Making them fearful to open up and have honest relationships due to fear of being exposed as evil another aspect of single motherhood is increasing numbers of people are being raised not actually hearing the male perspective of things and so defaulting to assuming the more traditionally feminine approach is best eg how friendships should work how to handle conflict etc K hit me with a perspective you cant/arent sharing. due to feminism and antidiscrimination laws etc we have seen a collapse of spaces whereby men of previous generations were able to socialise free of women and the fear of their judgement making it harder for men to express problems and vulnerabilities and gain the emotional support they need. I dont fear judgement of femininsts. Feminists support my problems of vulnrabilities and support me emotionally should I need it. There is no gaping hole where socializing with only men would fill it. I am not afraid of sharing and being vulnrable around women and feminists. I find this view interesting because it treats men as a group without any agency of their own. The observations that OP makes are all in the passive voice. There is no reason why a guy and 10 of his friends cant hang out and do guy stuff. Go right ahead. I do regularly. I was in my buddys garage last week helping work on his cars. I took as tour of a history museum with my college roommate 2 weeks ago. I had a nice dinner with my wife last night. Men are whole and complete people and if anything this infantilizing view of men is both misguided and borderline offensive. So what are those male spaces that dont exist anymore? And why do men need to socialize free from women? And how does feminism have anything to do with men that choose to leave their children? Right I feel like theres a lot of unfounded claims that could use some further explanation. Due to feminism and antidiscrimination laws etc we have seen a collapse of spaces whereby men of previous generations were able to socialise free of women and the fear of their judgement making it harder for men to express problems and vulnerabilities and gain the emotional support they need. What spaces are you talking about? And why is the absence of women necessary for men to express problems and vulnerability? I cant think of any spaces that have moved from gendered to non gendered that would be appropriate for expressing vulnerability. unintended consequence of feminism is the rise of single motherhood How exactly has the rise of feminism caused this? Masculinity a set of virtues that are applicable to all humans but are prioritised in men due to the difference in consequences of its absence in men vs women. That is not the official definition. The official definition is that characteristics like leadership power and dominance are predominantly attributed to masculinity while characteristics like being submissive and soft are attributed as feminity. The general agreed upon consensus is that both of these are a social construct which emerged due to the differing power dynamics between the genders. due to feminism and antidiscrimination laws etc we have seen a collapse of spaces whereby men of previous generations were able to socialise free of women and the fear of their judgement making it harder for men to express problems and vulnerabilities and gain the emotional support they need. What spaces? The only spaces that are under anti discrimination law are spaces like higher education and work places. All other spaces man can freely do whatever they want. To add to this I have rarely seen them express vulnerability and seek support rather they collectively turn to blame all their problems on woman just like this post. 2 unintended consequence of feminism is the rise of single motherhood This has nothing to do with feminism this has to do with man abondening their own children. Not a single woman want to have the burden of working full time taking care of an household and a child all by themselves. The issue is rather man impregnating woman and than leaving them with all the responsibilities. leading to increasing numbers of men being raised without fathers in the picture to provide the nuance to positions like men shouldn’t cry” meaning they don’t learn the nuance and instead learn a strawmanned version of the actual idea. Woman activly encourage their sons to have an positive outlet for their emotions against patriachal ideals in which man arent supposed to show them is somehow bad now? Yet you just complained a second ago that man have no space to show vulnerability but mothers activly giving them that space is also wrong? 3 another aspect of single motherhood is increasing numbers of people are being raised not actually hearing the male perspective of things and so defaulting to assuming the more traditionally feminine approach is best eg how friendships should work how to handle conflict etc Young boys are now also somehow being raised in a feminine vacuum where ther isnt a single other male in the world. we’ve seen increased movement towards children being taught that violence is never the answer and aggression is always bad or competitiveness is toxic etc leading many young men to feel isolated and toxic and like bad people solely for having these instincts within them. Violence and aggression are wrong because they harm other people. So you want us to promote man beating other woman and man up instead of being thought that hurting others is wrong? In general no one has an issue with competition which is why man are predmomenently being supported in sports or other healthy outlets for their energy. Your entire post is just blaming single mothers not the fathers who have abondend their child and the fact that we now a society see violence as wrong. Because you think man are inherently violent? And therefor we should just let them cause physical harm to others? due to feminism and antidiscrimination laws etc we have seen a collapse of spaces whereby men of previous generations were able to socialise free of women and the fear of their judgement making it harder for men to express problems and vulnerabilities and gain the emotional support they need. Arent there loads of those spaces though? Hell with the internet its really easy to find menfocused spaces where you can socialise with no fear of judgement because youre anonymous. The resources are 100% there for anybody who looks for them. unintended consequence of feminism is the rise of single motherhood leading to increasing numbers of men being raised without fathers in the picture to provide the nuance to positions like men shouldn’t cry” meaning they don’t learn the nuance and instead learn a strawmanned version of the actual idea. Can a mother not also give nuance to that idea? Or just tell the kid that its a dumb idea and shouldnt listen to it? True the impact of the parent can only have so much impact compared to the impact of general society... but thats true of fathers as well. another aspect of single motherhood is increasing numbers of people are being raised not actually hearing the male perspective of things and so defaulting to assuming the more traditionally feminine approach is best eg how friendships should work how to handle conflict etc How does understanding a traditionally feminine approach to life lead to loneliness? I dont understand how this ties into your main point. as women have disproportionately become represented in areas such as teaching we’ve seen increased movement towards children being taught that violence is never the answer and aggression is always bad or competitiveness is toxic etc leading many young men to feel isolated and toxic and like bad people solely for having these instincts within them. Making them fearful to open up and have honest relationships due to fear of being exposed as evil This is an interesting claim do you have any sort of source to back it up? Not trying to be passive aggressive here genuinely curious. That said I dont think saying women being teachers leads to telling children that competitiveness is toxic is a safe assumption. You know women can be and often are competitive too right? Finally you dont explain anywhere how any of this even assuming its all true implies that male loneliness is going to get worse. You claim it in the title of your CMV and then offer no rationale or basis for it. Masculinity a set of virtues that are applicable to all humans but are prioritised in men due to the difference in consequences of its absence in men vs women.” Who created the circumstances where the consequences are different? Feminism the movement towards the destruction of the patriarchy and the equalisation of men and women within society in relation to how they are treated and viewed the rights they hold etc.” Seems like they’re the ones trying to solve your problem. Male loneliness” is a direct consequence of the enforcement of patriarchal values on young men in response and resistance to feminism’s challenges and successes against the patriarchy. The patriarchy removed young men’s autonomy by limiting what ways of expression and aspirations are acceptable. Then it appeased them by making them feel entitled to women’s bodies and labor. Now feminism has fought back and gained rights for women as well as fought for the right of men to express themselves how they please. Now the patriarchy still limits and attempts to control young men but it can’t provide them with the same level of entitlement to women’s bodies and labor as it used to. Now instead of looking at the patriarchy who limited you in the first place and demanding dignity you look to the people who fought for their own dignity and say it’s their fault. 1. They can still do that. At the pub in a book club pool table... Why would a group of friends care or fear what strangers think of them? Way back you didnt have social media where you posted how your social group is fucking amazing and how all men must act like you! You want emotional support from men? Today surely its easier than ever to find and organise a group. Theres no antidiscrimination law in this. You might not have disabled people in your social circle no one is attacking you for it 2. this is a bit tue. As as bell hooks said some of these mothers try to over compensate. if father is around made he would say hell yes son cry if you want youre still a man. But how is this feminism and not FREEDOM!? 3. Why arent fathers around? Also dud read about how boys have been brutally abused in the past. From their fathers belts to whips from school masters. 4. Why? Its not true that the education system teaches people that competitiveness is toxic else capitalism would fall. Education system teaches people to be little workers. If you have an instinct to be competitive and aggressive why would you be fearful? due to feminism and antidiscrimination laws etc we have seen a collapse of spaces whereby men of previous generations were able to socialise free of women and the fear of their judgement making it harder for men to express problems and vulnerabilities and gain the emotional support they need. Spaces like what? Now this might be a country specific law thing but where in from it is still totally legal to have a single sex space as long as it serves a legitimate aim to have it so. unintended consequence of feminism is the rise of single motherhood leading to increasing numbers of men being raised without fathers in the picture to provide the nuance to positions like men shouldnt cry meaning they dont learn the nuance and instead learn a strawmanned version of the actual idea. Well Im not sure Id put this one on feminism. Feminism may have allowed women more freedom to leave unhappy marriages and relationships. But the decision for a father to be in their childs life is still up to the father. another aspect of single motherhood is increasing numbers of people are being raised not actually hearing the male perspective of things and so defaulting to assuming the more traditionally feminine approach is best eg how friendships should work how to handle conflict etc Whats the feminine approach to things then? as women have disproportionately become represented in areas such as teaching weve seen increased movement towards children being taught that violence is never the answer and aggression is always bad or competitiveness is toxic etc leading many young men to feel isolated and toxic and like bad people solely for having these instincts within them. Making them fearful to open up and have honest relationships due to fear of being exposed as evil What do you think used to be taught in schools? How does any of this relate to the male loneliness epidemic? You have it in your title but havent mentioned it at all in your post. It seems like we both think young men need better role models to teach them what real masculinity looks like as opposed to the online manosphere stuff but then you turn around and blame feminism for it which doesnt make much sense Its not feminists job to teach boys how to be men why would it be? Thats on us us men are the ones who need to be better role models and do the teaching here if its not happening theres nobody else to blame There are still male spaces and clubs. A lot of spaces are predominately male. Also how did feminism lead to fathers not being involved in their children’s lives? The loneliness thing is real but blaming feminism’s a copout. Men aren’t struggling because women got rights or classrooms stopped glorifying brawling we’re struggling because the old masculine script said don’t feel don’t need don’t talk” and now that it’s collapsing no one gave us a new one that works. Most of us were never taught how to build emotional bonds how to be vulnerable without it feeling like failure how to reach out before it’s rock bottom. That gap has nothing to do with feminists and everything to do with the silence our dads coaches and culture passed down like it was wisdom. If anything feminism cracked that shit open and made space for better models we just haven’t caught up yet. The problem isn’t the shift it’s that too many men were never shown how to move with it. I’m interested to hear more about spaces that feminists antidiscrimination laws have invaded and ruined for lonely men. There are so many really sarcastic things that I want to say I want to hear your honest opinion. Feminism is barely a blip on the radar for the causes of these problems even if we grant that feminism is the prime mover behind women being disproportionately involved in teaching and the rise of single motherhood. The male loneliness epidemic is primarily being caused by capitalism. Commodification of third spaces is what destroys mens meeting spaces. The absurd rates of inflation and sky rocketing prices cause men to work longer for less and have less time for friendships. The attention economy online makes it easy to get dopamine after a long shift rather than going to a friends house to play cards. we’ve seen increased movement towards children being taught that violence is never the answer and aggression is always bad or competitiveness is toxic etc leading many young men to feel isolated and toxic and like bad people solely for having these instincts within them... Do you believe men are naturally innately more competitive violent or aggressive? If so on what basis do you believe this? Do you have evidence that this is innate in men as opposed to environmental? Men are lonely because they’re online instead of spending time with friends in real life So one psychological pitfall I see you and many others falling into is to assume that because things are bad now the past that was destabilised must have been better in some way. Id like to challenge that. we have seen a collapse of spaces whereby men of previous generations were able to socialise free of women and the fear of their judgement making it harder for men to express problems and vulnerabilities and gain the emotional support they need. Where those spaces really as emotionally supportive as you say them to be? meaning they don’t learn the nuance and instead learn a strawmanned version of the actual idea. Are you sure there was a nuanced version that was much better than the strawmanned version? Its notable that when we actually look back in history for a better time we often draw blanks. The vast majority of working class and previously peasant men have often been trapped in societies that werent necessarily nice places to live psychologically speaking. Even richer/upper classes often have cycles of toxicity making them not much better. Just to take a major example if we look at one of the most idealised times 1950s we find a number of cultures utterly traumatised by war the menfolk being the ones who were the most traumatised. While economic policy quite a bit of which was left wing in nature was paying off the society wasnt exactly a happy one under the surface. I would disagree with points 1 and 2 namely you are assuming that male only spaces or increased males in the household would enable nuanced conversation of masculinity but it afforded the opposite. Fathers were typically the ones most central in instilling the men dont cry mentality into their sons. To the extent that it wasnt fathers male only spaces also served this role. Men dont cry type mentality isnt something that fathers help their sons avoid it was a something they instilled into their children. Male only spaces didnt help men express problems and vulnerability they reemphasized those problems. These helped with the loneliness epidemic in the sense that they did provide connection but they provided the opposite of what you claim in terms of emotional support or providing nuanced views on masculinity. Having a brother in arms can help you feel less lonely but often further reinforces the need to be violent to feel manly. Feminism has nothing to do with men not being involved in their children’s life. Masculinity a set of virtues that are applicable to all humans but are prioritised in men due to the difference in consequences of its absence in men vs women. I dont believe masculinity is a set of virtues. Rather its the belief men should act in a certain way thats different from women. We really need to lose words like masculine and feminine to suggest men should behave one way and women should behave in another. unintended consequence of feminism is the rise of single motherhood leading to increasing numbers of men being raised without fathers in the picture to provide the nuance to positions like men shouldn’t cry” meaning they don’t learn the nuance and instead learn a strawmanned version of the actual ideaa. This assumes three things * That children of single mothers are *fatherless* \ that simply because the mother is unmarried their father is not in the picture or taking an active role in their life. * That children of single mothers have no *father figures* \ that these children have no male role models to look up to in some way. * That women inherently cannot give nuance to positions like men shouldnt cry. * This assumption is outright stated in your point three. as women have disproportionately become represented in areas such as teaching It’s fair to critique the causational aspect but I’m not sure how anyone would disagree with the correlation. What is your evidence for this claim? Show that there is a correlation. Which male spaces collapsed? To me feminism at its most basic is that woman should have equal rights and opportunities as men. I don’t know how that concept affects me or other men negatively. I don’t get men complaining about having a tougher time because they are male. For two thousand plus years men have had a huge advantage over women and only recently have women had opportunities to vote get credit cards in their names etc etc. and with this we now get men whining. What youre saying is that the gender roles you were brought up with are not so solid any more and that you cannot cope. due to feminism and antidiscrimination laws etc we have seen a collapse of spaces whereby men of previous generations were able to socialise free of women and the fear of their judgement making it harder for men to express problems and vulnerabilities and gain the emotional support they need. What evidence suggests that having a space free of women has anything to do with fear of judgement or how difficult it is to express problems? unintended consequence of feminism is the rise of single motherhood leading to increasing numbers of men being raised without fathers in the picture to provide the nuance to positions like men shouldn’t cry” meaning they don’t learn the nuance and instead learn a strawmanned version of the actual idea. How has feminism caused a rise in single motherhood? What evidence led you to that conclusion? another aspect of single motherhood is increasing numbers of people are being raised not actually hearing the male perspective of things and so defaulting to assuming the more traditionally feminine approach is best eg how friendships should work how to handle conflict etc Anecdotally this has not been what Ive observed. Most of my friends that grew up with single mothers tend to come from the inner city and would frequently hang out with male friends at school. as women have disproportionately become represented in areas such as teaching we’ve seen increased movement towards children being taught that violence is never the answer and aggression is always bad or competitiveness is toxic etc leading many young men to feel isolated and toxic and like bad people solely for having these instincts within them. Making them fearful to open up and have honest relationships due to fear of being exposed as evil Women have been disproportionately represented in teaching for over a century. This isnt a new phenomenon. How is teaching someone that violence isnt the answer leading young men to feel isolated? Who saying that competitiveness is toxic? Competitiveness is a huge part of American culture. Its actively encouraged and almost no one is calling it toxic. Funny cause men love to say no one is listening to them yet we can’t seem to stop hearing about the male loneliness epidemic and how they themselves are doing nothing about it… yall are saying men can’t voice their opinions yet yall be hearing about this nonsense 24/7 so which one is it? 1. What exactly is stopping men from going to a park and forming a group and talking about their feelings? Also anti discrimination laws and you complaining about men not being able to express themselves freely in the same sentence sounds to me like you want men to be able to be sexist and misogynistic freely without repercussions cause in case you weren’t aware that’s what men did in previous generations with male only spaces they didn’t go there to talk about depression and anxiety. 2. Why is single motherhood being blamed on the person that stayed and not the one that left? How about fathers don’t leave their children and step up . Also it’s mostly men teaching other men that men don’t cry” so stop blaming single mothers for the actions of men. 3. Ok and? Statistically speaking and historically women are better at making friends and forming societies and relationships with other people especially those different from them. How is that a bad thing? How is teaching their sons to be social and for relationships bad? 4. Aggressive behavior in men is not natural behavior” they’re not natural instincts. You are a representation as to why there isn’t a male loneliness epidemic there’s a male accountability epidemic. Men are being held accountable for their actions and yall don’t like it. Cause somehow in 50 years even with obstructions women managed to evolved yet men that have been living life to the fullest can’t seem to grasp the concept that things have changed and so should they. Were you concerned when you made this post that it might come off as people who value women as equals are to blame for male loneliness? Is gender egalitarianism a worthy goal? More single mothers is not a consequence of feminism. People dont get divorced because of feminism unintended consequence of feminism is the rise of single motherhood... Could you elaborate? How has feminism as a political and social movement led to the rise in single mothers? People will most likely date robots within a decade or so. **Note** Your thread has **not** been removed. Your posts topic seems to be fairly common on this subreddit. Similar posts can be found through our or via the . Regards the mods of /r/changemyview. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* It’s inconsistent for ProIsrael advocates/Zionists to dismiss international law in one vein when they rely on it in another So I’ve been engaging in material surrounding the IsraelPalestine conflict and i’ve noticed a pattern I find logically inconsistent. I will break this down into multiple points. First many proIsrael commentators or Zionists argue that international law isn’t binding when it’s used to criticize Israel. For example in cases of settlement expansion which violates the fourth geneva convention military operations or the blockade of Gaza potentially collective punishment they often say that things like Amnesty or UN reports don’t really matter. My issue with this is that it is a form of selective legitimacy or international law only when convenient”. The founding of Israel itself is heavily reliant on international law. For example UN resolution 181 which proposed partition of palestine and widespread international support and recognition. You can’t rely on international law to justify Israel’s creation and then dismiss it as irrelevant when it’s inconvenient. That’s a double standard. Secondly the idea itself that international law doesnt matter or is non binding is a viewpoint that comes from a legitimate school of thought realism. However this view ignores a crucial distinction. While enforcement may be weak or inconsistent this does not mean that international law doesnt matter or its not binding. The ICJ and ICC have legitimate legal standing even if compliance is fraught. UN Security Councils pass resolutions that are internationally binding. To say international law isnt binding is like saying tax laws arent binding or dont matter because rich people sometimes evade them. It misses the point. Lastly I believe that those who engage in this inconsistency aren’t using it as a legal framework but as an ideological shield and furthering an agenda when its convenient but discarding it when it challenges them. Change my view. [deleted] You’re right to raise concerns about consistency but it’s the other way around. It’s a valid challenge to hold all sides accountable when invoking international law. But I think there’s a deeper issue being overlooked here the assumption that proIsrael” voices are rejecting international law itself rather than critiquing how selectively and politically it’s applied and how often it is used and bent against Israel and how little it is used in its terror state neighbors. It’s not that international law is irrelevant. It’s on the contrary many of the same voices who defend Israel do so using international legal principles. What they object to is the distortion and politicization of those principles by bodies like the UN Human Rights Council or NGOs such as Amnesty International both of which have longdocumented records of disproportionate focus on Israel while ignoring far more egregious violations elsewhere. That’s not dismissing law it’s calling out bad faith in how it’s administered. The invocation of Resolution 181 for example isn’t as cleancut as you’re implying. That resolution was a nonbinding General Assembly recommendation not a legally enforceable mandate and while the Israeli leadership accepted it the Arab states rejected it and launched a war to prevent its implementation. So it’s inaccurate to say Israel’s legitimacy hinges solely on that resolution. Israel’s legal right to exist stems more fundamentally from the principle of selfdetermination under the UN Charter and the League of Nations Mandate which recognized the historical connection of the Jewish people to the land. These frameworks are rooted in international law yes. but Israel’s founding didn’t depend on cherrypicking selective enforcement from biased institutions. It emerged despite many of them. More broadly there’s a pattern of weaponizing legal terminology to delegitimize Israel’s very existence. Terms like apartheid” genocide” and collective punishment” are often thrown around with no meaningful application of legal thresholds For example blockade is not illegal per se under international law it’s considered lawful in armed conflict when used to prevent arms smuggling which is exactly what Egypt and Israel both do regarding Gaza. Egypt is never censored. But that nuance is often stripped away. When critics say Israel is violating the Fourth Geneva Convention over settlements they usually ignore that the territory in question is not legally occupied” in the traditional sense since it wasn’t recognized as sovereign territory of any state before 1967. That’s not rejecting international law—it’s debating its interpretation which is entirely legitimate. You can argue against settlements with correct claims but invocation of certain terms matters. But … The real inconsistency is often on the other side. Many of the same people who insist on international law when criticizing Israel are completely silent when it comes to war crimes by Hamas such as using human shields indiscriminate rocket fire or the deliberate targeting of civilians all clear violations under the Rome Statute. They applaud the ICC for pursuing Israel but dismiss the fact that Hamas leaders have open arrest warrants from countries like the U.S. for terrorism. Why is international law only sacred when it targets Israel but irrelevant when it exonerates or demands accountability from its enemies? So I don’t think it’s that Zionists or proIsrael commentators are being inconsistent. I think they’re responding to an international legal system that at least in practice often applies its standards asymmetrically. The criticism isn’t of the law. it’s of the institutions using law as a political tool which ironically undermines the very legitimacy and universality of the system itself. That’s what needs to be fixed if international law is to be taken seriously by all parties. TLDR If you think international is being applied fairly to Israel and everywhere else you’re crazy I think its mostly the other way around. The typical proIsraeli position is either 1. From our understanding of international law Israel meets international law including in the WB. This is who you see use claims like the Oslo accords made it legal or things like Uti possidetis juris. Those people especially the legal scholars that believe that would be able to argue with you about every point you raised and more including whether and on what capacity bodies such as the ICC or ICJ have jurisdiction on the situation. This is not inconsistent or hypocritical. People can argue its wrong but its not either of the other two. 2. International law is a framework thats meant to be reciprocal. When all of our neighboring countries didnt follow international law and dont follow it you cant expect us not to do the same. If because those countries didnt follow international law we occupied the WB and it has a strategic need for the defense of Israel given the geography of the region taking some parts of it or pressuring Palestinians to agree to peace by building settlements while probably not legal moral. Most of those people dont judge Hamas because they are illegally doing things they judge Hamas because they are terrorists a moral word rather than a legal definition. Again not inconsistent nor hypocritical. Regarding the partition plan specifically I dont think you understand the argument. The argument is more like we were willing to share they wanted to kill us instead they couldnt or that they claim international legitimacy is not the same as the law. Specifically Ive seen proIsraeli people talk about how Israel doesnt need international recognition for it to be a state. Im getting back to the jurisdiction Im not sure you understand that international law doesnt mean that every international tribunal gets jurisdiction. Saying that they dont want the ICC to intervene is a perfectly viable legal opinion. Im not sure if this is your misunderstanding but if it is I can write about it more. That being said there are stupid people that Im sure are inconsistent or hypocritical. I think the inconsistency is mainly based on a fundamental misunderstanding of the argument. The argument is that int’l law is used inconsistently when it comes to Israel.” From that some people argue that because of that int’l law should be dismissed— but that’s a minority opinion for more information you can listen to with a former IDF lawyer. Now the question is whether this argument is true or not. Let’s take what you said about the UN’s resolution 181 II from November 29th 1947 as an example. Here too there’s a misunderstanding of the legality of the resolution UN General Assembly resolutions such as this one are not legally binding it’s a recommendation not a rule. In fact the UNGA isn’t an international legal entity at all but a diplomatic one. The legal organ of the UN is the UN Security Council. The UNGA can make *statements* but not dictate — by precedent or otherwise — regarding matters of int’l law. The UNGA can only dictate internal UN matters not matters of member states. As such UNGA Resolution 181II wasn’t what established the legal framework for Israel’s founding — it only gave int’l recognition for the soontobe created Jewish state in Mandatory Palestine Israel was founded in May 1415 1948 in a *political* sense. What gave the legal framework to Israel’s establishment is the Montevideo Convention of 1933 as well as the fact that the ruling power Britain relinquished control over the area as was granted to it via the Mandate. In this regard Israel’s establishment is more similar to the founding of other postcolonial or postMandatory entities like Jordan Iraq and even India/Pakistan in many ways. The ICC case on its own is an entire can of worms which is unprecedented for multiple reasons in int’l law but basically it’s not at all a consensus that the ICC even has jurisdiction — again for multiple reasons. The main problem is that Israel is not a member state of the ICC like the US and that Palestine isn’t *technically* a State — or more accurately Palestine is only a State in a limited manner and the way it became recognized as a member State of the ICC is both unprecedented and arguably invalid legally speaking. As such there’s a strong argument to be made that the ICC has no jurisdiction. The ICJ is simpler according to Joan Donoghue the president of the ICJ at the time of that ruling ” In other words the ICJ made no assertion that Israel *is* violating int’l law — only that there’s a *plausibility* of South Africa’s Right of Standing insofar that there is such a group as Palestinians and that they have rights which include protection from genocide which is a relatively pretty low bar to clear unlike beyond reasonable doubt. There’s a lot more to be said but the jist is this I think you misunderstood what the argument is and I think you misunderstood how int’l law as well as int’l organs work. If you want to learn more I suggest starting with on the legal and social frameworks of genocide and how it relates to what happens in Gaza that was held in Norway in which a representative of Amnesty a prof. and legal expert on int’l law and specifically Int’l Humanitarian Law a proIsrael lawyer specializing in int’l law an anthropologist of the Middle East and a representative of the local Jewish community participated. Do you think black people under Jim Crow were inconsistent for relying on the law to try and get their civil rights recognised while dismissing southern Jim Crow law as racist and inconsistent? I dont personally agree with Israels argument on this but there is nothing inconsistent with saying certain sources of law can be biased and their judgements founded on prejudice and ignored while also relying on the law to recognise fundamental rights. I think the claim of inconsistency is a bit overstated. First Israel’s creation was not purely based on international law. UN Resolution 181 was a nonbinding recommendation. Israel’s statehood rests more on recognition by other sovereign states and its functioning as a state along with arguments based on historical presence and selfdetermination. Second international law is not a single unified system. Different parts of it carry different legal weight. Criticizing certain interpretations or applications especially from bodies seen as politically biased does not mean rejecting international law as a whole. Third international law is fundamentally different from domestic law since it lacks strong enforcement mechanisms. This makes the tax law analogy a bit weak. Lastly claiming that this is driven by ideology may assume motives that are hard to prove. There are reasonable concerns about selective or politicized uses of international law. Comparing international law to tax law is a pretty terrible comparison In one case there is a state with full capacity to enforce its laws if it so desires. When the state wants to enforce tax laws it does and if people don’t comply the state can imprison offenders. The ICC/ICJ cannot enforce its rulings by itself and relies on others to enforce them Israel was created after winning the independence war not because of the UN or because of international law First many proIsrael commentators or Zionists argue that international law isn’t binding when it’s used to criticize Israel. For example in cases of settlement expansion which violates the fourth geneva convention military operations or the blockade of Gaza potentially collective punishment they often say that things like Amnesty or UN reports don’t really matter. My issue with this is that it is a form of selective legitimacy or international law only when convenient”. If Israel did not believe intl law is important it wouldnt have bothered to show up and defend itself in the icj. I disagree with many of Israels policies but experts on intl law have explained how each of them is not a violation which you dont address. The argument isnt that amnesty or UN reports dont matter but that selective enforcement bias and conflicts of interest stemming sometimes from actual complicity in crimes against Israelis compromise the validity of the reports. The argument absolutely isnt that the law applies only when its convenient. But also the argument cant be that the law cant change or evolve when the reality proves that it cant handle a new situation such as a non state actor claiming genocide but also refusing to surrender. The founding of Israel itself is heavily reliant on international law. For example UN resolution 181 which proposed partition of palestine and widespread international support and recognition. You can’t rely on international law to justify Israel’s creation and then dismiss it as irrelevant when it’s inconvenient. That’s a double standard. Yes and 181 wouldnt have mattered if Israel lost the war that immediately followed. It won the war 181 was never implemented because Palestinians didnt accept it and now its dead letter. Intl law cant create states out of thin air. Sovereignty is the prerequisite. Secondly the idea itself that international law doesnt matter or is non binding is a viewpoint that comes from a legitimate school of thought realism. However this view ignores a crucial distinction. While enforcement may be weak or inconsistent this does not mean that international law doesnt matter or its not binding. The ICJ and ICC have legitimate legal standing even if compliance is fraught. They do but if they become corrupt theyre not above criticism and again intl law is not comparable to domestic law because there is no sovereign that can enforce it. If theres no enforcement and no compliance arguably its not law so much as an aspiration. UN Security Councils pass resolutions that are internationally binding. To say international law isnt binding is like saying tax laws arent binding or dont matter because rich people sometimes evade them. It misses the point. What *is* the point? And when did Israel say the law isnt binding actually? Lastly I believe that those who engage in this inconsistency aren’t using it as a legal framework but as an ideological shield and furthering an agenda when its convenient but discarding it when it challenges them. Almost definitely. And this should be called out. Likewise it must be called out when the law is used only against Israel while also never inuring to Israels benefit such as by exempting it from the obligation to not target hospitals when theyre used as military facilities. The law is either universal and consistent or its not a law. I strongly suspect that consistent application of the law would weigh in Israels favor. Lastly the law isnt a codification of divine morality and its agents arent angels. If it fails it must change or it will be lost. Which is the single most terrifying prospect for me of whats been happening because intl humanitarian law is dear to my heart. I think you have an interesting point. I think there are two points that could help to contextualize the situation. First I don’t think that anyone in Israel except very radical people would dismiss the gravity and the repercussions of the security council &amp GA to give Palestine a state. The reason that proIsraelis are against for example the AI report is not only because there is a general dismissal of international law. It’s also because they consider the topics constructed as they deviate from Israeli lawfulness. For example in Israeli law some settlements are not illegal some others are. You don’t have to agree with Israeli law but imagine taking an inside and not not an outsider view on this. Settlements are legally okay in some cases and that is clearly regulated and everyone around you considers this okay. But now someone comes from the outside and tells you all of them are illegal you can imagine that many people will say but wait a second. Same with Gaza. Israelis don’t consider this to be an occupation but a blockade and consider this not occupied territory but a quasi state run by Hamas. Second point is time. The UN in 1948 is a total different organization than today. If you speak about something that was done by the UN in this time it carries authority of a trusted institution while today’s UN doesn’t have any legitimacy anymore in Israel. This is also something due to Netanjahu as he used anti UN sentiment to mobilize people in elections. Imagine it like speaking about a Guns N‘ Roses concert. If someone tells you he went to see them in 2023 when Axl couldn’t hit a note anymore bland Slash long left the band no one will be interested. But if someone tells you he saw them in 1993 after they recorded appetite for destruction totally different story. Having said that it’s not only that Bibi actively delegitimized the UN. They also did it themselves. Even in peace years there are dozen time more antiIsrael resolutions than Iran or Syria or Sudan or whatever resolutions pushed by Arab states. So it shouldn’t surprise that people don’t take them seriously anymore in Israel. Your CMV is a tautology. By definition it is inconsistent for anybody to dismiss X and also rely on X. But your argument is a strawman since nobody claims international law isn’t binding on Israel. They just argue that it’s *really* on their side if you accept their interpretations of the law and the facts. When are pro Palestinian people concerned with Palestinians violating the laws of war? Tbh the other side is never holding their their sound accountable for war crimes either. Taking civilian hostages Children soldiers Shooting rockets at random Israel cities Attacking soldiers disguised as civilians Using schools and hospitals for military purposes All fine because they are resisting occupation I think both sides are using every method they can... You make very good points and I share your views. But for the sake of playing the devils advocate what would you say in response to the ProIsraeli talking point that the verdict of international organisations like ICJ ICC UN Human Rights Watch Amnesty International etc. are all AntiSemitic and therefore should be disregarded? I think US law on Jaywalking is absurd. I think prohibition of murder is eminently sensible. Do you not see how a legal model could be wrong in some situations and right in others? I think youre mixing a lot of things together that can and should be considered atleast somewhat distinct. Most zionists in the west are most definitely opposed to the settlements in the westbank. Either way the UN has proven itself to be completely and utterly incompetent and while I dont agree with Israels position I can atleast understand why they do not care about what the UN says or wants. **Note** Your thread has **not** been removed. Your posts topic seems to be about double standards. Double standards are very difficult to discuss without careful explanation of the double standard and why its relevant. Please review our information about in the wiki. Regards the mods of /r/changemyview. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* The founding of Israel itself is heavily reliant on international law Israel tried and *failed* to rely on international law for its founding. The UN made a proposed division of land between Arabs and Jews that the Arabs rejected. The Jews founded Israel not with UN material support but despite there being none. The Arab nations immediately declared war and invaded. Israel fought them off with no UN support. The founding didnt end up relying at all on international law Israel tried and failed to use that and had to rely only on the Jews Druze and Bedouin who fought to make it a reality. [removed] The People Rioting Dont Care About Deportations They Just Want to Virtue Signal The people rioting in LA dont actually care about illegal immigrants being deported they just want to Virtue Signal because they hate Trump. Obama deported over 3 million illegal immigrants. If you count turn backs the number increases to 5 million the most out of ANY president in history. Yet til this day nobody says shit about it. Wheres the people calling Obama evil for doing this? Nowhere because they dont care. Biden deported over 1.1 million illegal immigrants. Just like with Obama its been crickets. Nobody has rebuked him for it. Nobody has said a damn thing about it. Why? Because they dont care. Now Trump does the exact same thing suddenly its time to wave Mexican flags and riot. Suddenly people care. Yeah right. As if. This is just a clear example of virtue signaling they only care because its Trump they never cared before. Hell nobody cared during Trumps first term either. They just want to burn shit and act like the good guys when nobody gave a f**k before its just cool now and they want to be the cool kids. Its pathetic. Im open to having my mind changed about this but honestly from my perspective its as pathetic as corporations changing their logo to the rainbow for pride month to pander to the LGBTQQAAIP+ community. They dont actually care they just want people to think that they do. No one is rioting yet. There are unarmed civilians protesting and yes throwing rocks at ICE and other gestapoacting equipment. The very *very* few times property of the city or businesses were being damaged it was the protestors that stopped a single masked person that was doing it. In at least 2 cases i have personally seen footage of when asked why they had a mask on and if they were sent to cause damage they ran away. As for the rest of your post you are simply wrong. No one puts themselves in physical danger and under threat of incarceration for simple virtue signaling. That is an almost only online element that doesnt translate to the real world as the very nature of the term implies a signal of caring instead of real action. Faux News uses it incorrectly and regardless of where you got your understanding of it you are parroting their culture war bullshit. Yes Biden and Obama as well as every other president has deported illegal immigrants. This isnt the case if you actually listen to literally *any* serious person left of center talking about it. The problem is the mass targeting of all immigrants without investigation due process or rights including those that are actively engaged in legal and correct methods of naturalization. A further concern is the adoption of pardoned for actual rioting homegrown terrorist groups like the Proud Bois into ICE and the terroristlike tactics used to invade and kidnap these people who then disappear for weeks without contact to family or lawyers are not given their constitutionally granted rights and then shipped to a modernday gulag. Deporting criminal illegals isnt the issue here regardless of what Right Wing talking heads are bleating. Its the unconstitutional overreach and methods that are harming people and taking away rights. **This** is the tyranny the Right claims they need their guns for and yet all I see is them out here supporting the Boot with their tongue. Obama deported over 3 million illegal immigrants. If you count turn backs the number increases to 5 million the most out of ANY president in history. Yet til this day nobody says shit about it. He was given the slur of Deporter in Chief during his presidency. So people did say shit about it. He was protested against during speeches in 2014 and there were rallies and hunger strikes at the National Mall. The difference is that Obama directly spoke to the protesters and meet with the people fasting. He didnt call up the National Guard to show he was a tough guy. He didnt deport people of mundane crimes to hell hole prisons and then lie about not being able to do anything about it. Obama wasnt perfect and criticism over his immigration policy is fair but what he was doing doesnt compare to Trump. 1. It’s not a riot. 2. There’s this thing called the Internet where you can see all the criticisms of both former presidents 3. There’s also this thing called due process which would most likely be the difference in the situations Biden deported over 1.1 million illegal immigrants. Just like with Obama its been crickets. Nobody has rebuked him for it. Nobody has said a damn thing about it. Why? Because they dont care. Trump has deported illegal immigrants even when barred by a judge paid to send them to foreign prisons and did not return them when ordered to by a judge. Biden and Obama did not do those things. People dont riot to virtue signal Beyond that the problem is that the current administration is deporting people who are here legally and those that are here illegally are being denied due process to determine their fate being categorized as dangerous criminals and in many cases sent to a country other than their original country. Immigrant rights groups called Obama deporter in chief”… idk your whole post is just uniformed speculation about the motivations of others. The protests are in response to raids and concentrated in immigrant heavy areas… your conspiracy seems like a lot of cope because you don’t understand why people would be against fascist type actions in their community. Baffling to me that you’d feel like people are so worthless and such statistics that no one would be upset with masked government men disappearing people into vans. The ability of people to protest fascism and authoritarianism is enshrined in the constitution. Law enforcement ALSO has to follow the law even when they investigating pursuing and detaining suspects. Due process is important for EVERYONE because when due process isnt needed or followed ANYONE can be detained imprisoned or deported. And its not a far cry from them just being able to take what you have and kill you. The slippery slope applies to all. The difference between Trump and all other administrations in this case was due process. If you wont stand up for the weakest and most vulnerable then you certain wont have people standing up for you when the time comes to detain and imprison you. If youre a patriot and follow the constitution there is NO way you can support Trump or this administration as they are directly working against the constitution at this point and finding ways to get around habeas corpus and due process. We could talk about posse comitatus bringing in the National Guard for law enforcement which without invoking the insurrection act is also against the law and unconstitutional. So which is it? Are you a Trump supporter or do you support the constitution? I have for a long time maintained that complaining about virtue signaling” is a way for people to resolve their own cognitive dissonance. They see other people protesting an injustice they believe themself to be a good person but they are not protesting the injustice. They conclude that those other people aren’t *really* taking a moral stance because that would mean that they are the immoral one. So those other people must be virtue signaling.” [removed] Key word being illegal immigrants. They’re kidnapping and disappearing American citizens and people here legally. They’ve sent in masked unidentifiable agents” to come out in full war gear and rip babies from their mothers. All so they can charge thousands a day in makeshift camps and legally steal billions in tax dollars. You can’t send people to random prisons all over the world. It’s illegal. If people are in a courthouse showing up for a hearing they’re doing it legally. There is complete lawlessness here AND rallying the public to hate immigrants. It’s a fake enemy. They present an enemy and propose they are the savior. Oldest trick in tne book. 1. There was criticism of both Obama and Biden. Your failure to pay attention reflects on you not them. 2. Obama and Biden focused on dangerous criminals. Trump is targeting people indiscriminately Again if you don’t see a difference that’s on you not the people resisting. Only people with no sense of virtue think other people’s virtue is performative. Id offer another take. Its not about caring for deportation as much as the mothod used and by whom and how. POTUS is a mandate given by the people and from all of the US and as you can see here https//www.maps.com/howmuchvotingpowerdoeseachusstatehave/ California is underrepresented despite also being an incredibly rich state. So LAers are pissed and they have a right to be. Now instead of trying to appease the crowds Trump makes fun of their representative and major while also being incredibly authoritarian in his demand to respect federal authority and uniform. The people are rioting because they dislike the use of authoritarian methods and disagree with the way the government handles its monopoly on violence. This is why Obama and Biden deported many illegal immigrants without mass protests. They didnt trigger the publics fear of an authoritarian Dictator. People are protesting because they believe the constitutional 5th amendment right of americans is being violated under the guise of labeling them as illegal immigrants. They get detained by ICE agents and are refused due process . think of this catch 22 you dont get full legal rights till you prove youre american but you cant prove that because you dont have access to a lawyer because youre not given full rights... This is so funny because its so easy to disprove. *So many people* opposed and openly protested both Obama *and* Bidens deportations me among them. Just take a few minutes on the search engine of your choice and you can find many articles about it. Also Trumps deportation policy is *much* more cruel than Biden or Obamas and in some cases actually illegal. Neither of those presidents accidentally and in violation of a court order sent a lawful U.S. resident to a notoriously inhumane prison in El Salvador. Neither Biden nor Obama openly defied U.S. courts and deported people without due process. Neither of those presidents sent immigrants to Guantanamo Bay. Are you going to pretend their policies are in any way comparable and act surprised that people might find one policy more objectionable? Yet til this day nobody says shit about it. Wheres the people calling Obama evil for doing this? Nowhere because they dont care. You might just be listening to very centrist milquetoast liberals but PLENTY of people on the left hate Obama for that along with the the drone strikes consider him a war criminal and think of him as generally weak when it came to enacting progressive policies. Obama is not this overly beloved figure on the left that people on the right like to make him out to be. [removed] Said the guy that calls evolution a myth. Now Trump does the exact same thing Is your view that the Trump administrations policies immigration policies are the same as Obamas? I guess I could use more clarity on what youre saying here because it certainly seems like Trump has made policy changes for the worse! Look Im personally sympathetic to the idea of open borders but that was obviously not the policy of Biden and Obama so Im not sure they deported a lot of people is as compelling a point as you think it is. People are protesting because the Trump administration has specifically done some very scary things related to immigration and due process and many of these things are *quite* different from anything that was going on in previous administrations. If your view is no actually theyre literally the same we can point out differences such as sending people to an el Salvadorian mega prison but if you didnt mean that then Im not sure what the view is here. I cant read the mind of every individual protestor but take any new trump policy and *that* could plausibly be a reason someone is protesting now but wasnt protesting a year ago. Wheres the people calling Obama evil for doing this? You couldn’t go 5 minutes during trumps first term without people also criticizing obamas immigration plans. Are you purposefully forgetting this? I’m pretty sure you either live under a rock or have siloed yourself into consuming a singular narrative on whatever platforms you’re on for the past decade A few did protest and many more didn’t but probably should have. However the escalation of deportations and blithe disregard for the rule of law has snapped people out of their apathy. If the USFG can disregard Due Process for suspected undocumented people they can and will disregard it for everyone. That’s why people are protesting. Trump isnt doing the exact same thing. He is ignoring due process and having his thugs show up in masks with no badges to take people and potentially ship them off to a foreign prison. He is cancelling visas of those who say things he doesnt like and sending goons to courthouses to arrest immigrants literally going to court to do it the right way. [removed] The current government isnt merely deporting illegal immigrants. Its also going after people who are legally here when they engage in political speech that the government disagrees with. Plus its pretty clear that public attitudes toward immigrants in general are getting more hostile lately and our fourth amendment rights against ICE arent what they used to be. Whether you agree with the protesters or not things have noticeably changed with this countrys policies and attitudes on immigration. Its not merely a case of deporting people is suddenly bad now. The way something is done often matters just as much as what is being done. I’m fine with deportations. I am not fine with the way this administration does deportations which is plainly unconstitutional. And of course there are the many many other things we have good reason to be enraged about right now which I’m sure helps fuel protests. You are right they don’t care about deportations it’s about the lack of due process. But even if Trump is ALSO targeting dangerous criminals he’s targeting non dangerous hard working people. That’s a significant difference that’s worthy of a different response. My disagreement is that they just want to virtue signal. I dont think its virtue signaling. I think they are trying to enact real change. Much of these violent riots from BLM to antifa to these riots are organized by the DSA. This is how communists believe they can force change. Pay close attention to the language being used at these riots. Its almost always rooted in social justice which is derived from critical theory which is derived from the Frankfurt School of thought. If you didnt hear criticisms of them you werent listening. The way the deportations happened under Obama and Biden are different in multiple ways than the way theyre happening under Trump. Theyre not rioting. Obama deported over 3 million illegal immigrants. If you count turn backs the number increases to 5 million the most out of ANY president in history. Yet til this day nobody says shit about it. Wheres the people calling Obama evil for doing this? Nowhere because they dont care. its been crickets. Nobody has rebuked him for it. Nobody has said a damn thing about it. Why? Because they dont care. This just shows trumps use of force deprivation of due process and threats to suspend habeus corpus are completely unnecessary along with unconstitutional 1. You are the one that incorrectly attributed fiery but mostly peaceful” as a quote to myself which I did not make. 2. Please provide a link to a wide spread rioting in LA and can you be clear about what your idea of a riot is? 3. It’s so weird that you jumped to me being a CNN producer. This post won’t last long here. The want the money for being activist which is better than virtue signaling since money can be exchanged for goods and services. Democrats online reputation has been sullied by radical leftist and is a major reason on why they lost the election. Unless your Amish like it or not the vast majority of humanity spends a significant amount time in front of a screen of some kind and everytime your infront of that screen your being influenced from availability biasfrequency biasprimary bias and so on. The democrats party online presence is not good due to the radical leftist who align with the party. For example man vs bear situation a significant amount of women claimed they rather be in the woods with a wild 2000 pound carnivorous animal then with a man and there were thousands of more people justifying this sentiment. Now you can say this is rage baitthey should get over it that shouldnt effect real world decisions that these people were clearly joking. Iam not here to argue iam simply here to tell you how these scenarios are being perceived and it is not in a good light. To add insult to injury non radical demslibs and leftist might not join in but they stand idly by and let it happen theres hardly any push back against this misandrist rhetoric from them. But if the scenario was bear vs black person there would be outrage in the streets people getting fired and homes being doxxed. This blatant hypocrisy from dems also doesnt help their case if discrimination is wrong it should be wrong regardless the victim. Dems often make the argument is okay because men have oppressed women in the past so its only right they have there turn. The sins of the father are not the sins of the son ultimately misogyny led to misandry and misandry lead to misogyny you cant beat hate with hate. Social media is a significant part of most peoples lives and if your reputationdems has been sullied on these sites then its going to cause real world consequences. You can shout from the rooftops people should go outsideand talk to people and not base their opinions off what they see online and I would agree but that is an ideal. I believe alot of people are basing there opinions off what they see online and if dems want to win they need better PR. Demsliberalsleftist vs Republicans this is how people online see this people are going to claim that demsliberalsand leftist all have different ideologies that maybe sobut no one cares. When someone is online shouting obscenities about everyone being a nazi a bigot and rasict no one stops and thinks this might be a republican they know its the other side. Unfortunately this is the reputation that the democrat party has for itself due to the people that tend to align themselves with the party. Either the people shouting these obscenities have to dial it back and have a more nuanced opinion or the dems have to completely separate themselves and iam not just talking about a few sugar coded remarks either. Unfortunately this type of extreme rebranding would lose a significant amount of votes from radical libs and leftist and the people that support there message. This would lead to an even higher percentage of non voters and these non voters are another reason why dems lost. Dems have put themselves in a deep hole and are going to need alot of time and rebranding and distancing themselves from these radial leftist and liberal ideologies if they ever want to be back in office. Yes policies are important but your social reputation is equally as important and dems have let their name be sullied. Its hard to respond to your claims here until you clarify what you think a radical leftist is and what positions they hold. Tt seems like you think radical leftists are Democrats who are feminists to the point of bashing men and thats... not what a radical leftist is. Radical leftists are defined by being anticapitalist. Thats the central criteria. How many radical leftists do you know in real life and have you ever asked them if they align with the Democratic Party? Radical leftists spend a LOT of time criticizing the Democratic Party and actively organizing to undermine it and replace with something radical and leftist because the Democrats are neither radical nor particularly leftist. Do you think the man/bear question was about the radical left? How many of the women answering that question do you think were avowed Marxists anarchists or socialists? How many were liberals? Why is the man versus bear debate a democrat thing? People really gotta stop treating politics and culture like the same thing To add insult to injury non radical demslibs and leftist might not join in but they stand idly by and let it happen theres hardly any push back against this misandrist rhetoric from them. How do you know this? Do you check the political affiliation of everybody who pushes back against this sort of thing? Or do you just assume that any pushback is coming from Republicans? But if the scenario was bear vs black person there would be outrage in the streets people getting fired and homes being doxxed. Quick question is this hyperbole or do you genuinely believe this would happen? This blatant hypocrisy from dems also doesnt help their case if discrimination is wrong it should be wrong regardless the victim. Dems often make the argument is okay because men have oppressed women in the past so its only right they have there turn. Do they? Ive never heard this argument. And yet you claim Dems often make \[it\]. Social media is a significant part of most peoples lives and if your reputationdems has been sullied on these sites then its going to cause real world consequences. This is true but do you have any evidence that this is happening more often for Democrats than it is for the Republicans? You think the man vs bear thing was radical leftist? That was a way to explain the dangers women face due to sexism in our society. It wasn’t literal. I’m sorry but if that was enough to push someone to the right then they were always part of the right to start with. there is no radical left attached to or influencing the democratic party. radical leftists hate the democratic party &amp the vice versa as much if not more than republicans do. this view is not based in reality rather is just regurgitated FOX news type right wing propoganda to further division. Lol boy howdy literally everything you just wrote is established propaganda from conservatives online that repeat these talking points ad nauseam. **If someone making fun of you online made you embrace fascism you were always a fascist and just looking for an excuse.** There is no radical leftist influence on the Democratic Party. Perception through social media is dictated by algorithm and conservative billionaires have a monopoly on the information and communication systems available to us. You ask the average person to define misandry” and they’re not gonna know what the fuck you’re talking about. I have boomer men at my job who laughed their asses off at the bear comparison. What you’re describing are the effects of propaganda. You have successfully been inducted to the culture wars congratulations. Every single thing you have an issue with doesn’t actually exist and you’ve created enemies in your mind out of tropes and trumped up online outrage. Are there insufferable leftists who genuinely hate men and think every white person is racist? Sure. Because crazy people exist and have phones. Mind blowing. You think those people didn’t exist 20 years ago? Or their counterparts? I’ve had men online yelling at me since middle school about how I belong in a kitchen and won’t ever be anything but a couple of holes did that radicalize me into hating all men and wanting to strip them of rights healthcare education? No. I got over it and understood there’s batshit assholes online and to ignore them. You’re telling me fully grown adults becoming fascists is understandable because they had less maturity and emotional stability than a 12 year old girl? Please. There’s plenty of people that’ve consumed just as much propaganda as you have and come away with the same conclusions though. So in that sense sure the online Democrats” ignoring I guess the swaths of bots foreign agents and cosplaying conservatives pretending to be online Dems intentionally manufactured reputation from right wing media has successfully inundated people in enough culture war bullshit to make them care about trans people in sports and the woke agenda”. *also the vast majority” of *humanity* is not spending their lives in front of a screen. Why is it that Donald Trump himself can call for a coup but in a country with 300 million people if one left leaning account which may not even be a real person says something you don’t agree with 100% you have no choice but to abandon the left? That sounds like a personal choice not something you can blame on other people Wellfunded and algorithmicallyboosted rightwing propaganda has been 10000x more influential in the dems online reputation than any radical leftists. You can blame the Dems for a lot of things theyve failed on but you also have to take into account the amount of Propaganda that comes from the right. So much conservative media is about cherry picking examples from the left and focuses on needing to own the libs. Then they offer overly simple answers to complicated topics like the reason the economy is failing is all because of immigrants. My point is even if the Dems tone down some of their messaging the right will still manipulate things to push their agenda. It sounds like youre just saying that right wing propaganda does a great job conflating radical leftists term left undefined Bernie and co? Certainly not representative of Dems if so hes not even a Dem with the Democratic party. You even acknowledge theyre not the same in your post. The question is why you think Dems can do anything about it? Theyre already a center right prostatus quo party. I can guarantee you radical leftists are generally sitting elections out because theyre disenfranchised systemically. They arent going to stop being radicals or start identifying as Dems. Misinformation works and the right is more willing to spread lies simple as that. Posts like this conveniently glaze over the fact that QAnon and black pill exist and make conservatives look absolutely loony. The Democrats lost the election because of inflation and illegal immigration. This has been extensively documented in surveys. Source I have no idea what man vs bear is but I can tell you with 100% confidence that is not why the Democrats lost the election. If you answer is not 1. a graph of inflation or 2. a graph of illegal immigration rates then your answer is wrong. Full stop. [removed] This is an extremely shallow view. Remember correlation is not causation. There are radical views on both sides of the aisle but in the end their impact on final elections results is insignificant. The main reason a party loses election is due to the swing voters and those tend to care very little about what an idiot hippie or a dumb nazi does or says on social media besides they live in areas where theyd rarely if ever experience those radical groups. They rather vote based on their perception of the economy and how it impacts their personal interests and lives. This was why Trump lost in 2020 and Kamala lost in 2024 The former was cursed by a pandemic while the latter was cursed by inflation. It also doesnt help that Kamala was merely a back up candidate and before her biden was unable to vocalize his economic agenda due to his dementia. Trump on the other hand was a very big mouth regarding economy constantly speaking of bringing jobs back lowering taxes bringing money back from foreign nations blah blah and they bought into all of that. You aren’t very clear what you think a fair reputation for the Democrats would be or a fair reputation for the radical left. You just seem to be arguing that most people are unable to distinguish between different strands of left to centerright politics. But then give an example of culturewar type stuff which doesn’t seem particularly radical left at all. In fact your example is the kind of thing that some in the left would consider typical of more neoliberal political theater. Perhaps defund the police would be a better example? In any case since you don’t clarify what a fair representation of the different parties are it is hard to see how the radical left has harmed its online reputation or with whom. It could just as easily be argued that the Democratic Party leadership has harmed the reputation of the radical left causing the party to lose the election. After all you seem to think the bear versus man issue is something to do with the priorities of the radical left rather than of neoliberal centrists and seem to dislike them for it yourself. In the end people are responsible for their own political judgments and actions. I am sure you did your best to focus on bringing people together and are frustrated that other people online undermined your campaign for enough people to think well of the Democrats. However if there is to be a reckoning of responsibilities then what is it that makes you think this blaming approach will bring people together more effectively this time? Even if you are right about online activities and reputations you could think about it from a more structural angle. The radical left has no major US TV channel or newspaper. It has far fewer resources in terms of corporate sponsorship or presence in Congress. In fact they tend to be stigmatized in mainstream arenas. So going online is the radical left’s only real channel for communication with the mainstream so it makes sense for it to focus energy there. There is no representative radical left party however with the power to drive an agenda online. It could not even partially control how its own supporters would interact. And so you are focusing on a very diffuse group of people you have put together in your own head just as you argue rightwing influenced people put the Democrats in the same mental box as radical leftists. Are you lashing out at a safe target out of frustration? I am sure people on the right had the same kinds of frustrations with each other too after losing elections. But the right found a figurehead with sufficient appeal this time despite also having a reputation among traditional Republicans for dishonesty cruelty stupidity racism sexism greed etc. How did they do it? Do you think the lesson is for the Democrats to appeal to such values more effectively themselves? Is it possible that the Democrats just failed to find a candidate sufficiently in tune with populist sentiments appealing to the radical left in the same way that the Republicans appealed to the radical right? Centrism is not bound to lose. But it did lose this time. Even making alliances with neoconservative antipopulists was insufficient to beat a populist. If most people online see this combination of neoconservatives and neoliberals as the same as the radical left this is more likely to be because of some other kind of prior messaging than messages emanating from the radical left. Blaming the radical left for trying to be heard in the only channel available to them seems a bit surreal. Democrats might do better to clarify if they see the radical left as part of their coalition or not. If so then mainstream Democrats should be blamed for suppressing the populist energy of the radical left. If not then it would be better for mainstream Democrats to encourage the left to vote for other parties to make it clear they are not part of the coalition. Trump is happy to discard rinos” neutralizing rightwing opponents from being seen as representatives of his coalition. It is not the responsibility of individual leftists expressing their frustrations online to make their opposition to the Democratic Party clearer than they already do. If this is what makes or breaks elections the Democratic Party has to make its own decision about whether it wants them in the party or not. Or you have to identify the source of prior messaging that makes people associate the radical left with Democrats and remove that. And if you can’t focus on that whether it be neutralizing Fox News or particular political action committees or whatever then you will fail whatever you do because you are focusing on the symptoms not the cause. The democrats lost the election because the partys direction is being set by elitist party leaders with no connection to the people. The Democratic party hasnt had a real primary where the nominee was chosen by voters instead of backroom deals since *2008*. Radical leftists might not be helping but the democratic establishment bears most of the blame. I agree with your conjecture but worried as that in an effort to as support the radical left the party embraced intolerance. The left has always tried to support the underdog” but how to support them has changed. Instead of supporting and helping designated groups it has decided it should suppress and vilify those that are deemed to be oppressors while unquestionably supporting the disadvantaged. It’s like the left discarded the value of tolerance which was one of their primary virtues. I suspect tolerance like any of the virtues is difficult to maintain. It’s so much easier to find scapegoats. Dems took way too long to remove Biden as a leading candidate and then gave the people Kamala Harris who didnt even have to primary. She also did very little to separate herself from Biden. [removed] Why is the opposite argument never permitted? Why do we never see CMVs talking about how reactionaries online writing about how they think that black people are genetically inferior or that women are only good for making babies send people to the left? Why is it that the left is the only group that seems to have political agency? Joe Biden’s own internal polling projected him losing the election https//thehill.com/homenews/campaign/4981792podsaveamericabidensinternalpollingshowedtrumpwinning400electoralvotes/ If Biden was projected to lose by his own polling why would we expect his VP to have a better chance than him? Unfortunately this is the reputation that the democrat party has for itself due to the people that tend to align themselves with the party. Either the people shouting these obscenities have to dial it back and have a more nuanced opinion or the dems have to completely separate themselves and iam not just talking about a few sugar coded remarks either. Unfortunately this type of extreme rebranding would lose a significant amount of votes from radical libs and leftist and the people that support there message. This would lead to an even higher percentage of non voters and these non voters are another reason why dems lost. Dems have put themselves in a deep hole and are going to need alot of time and rebranding and distancing themselves from these radial leftist and liberal ideologies if they ever want to be back in office. Yes policies are important but your social reputation is equally as important and dems have let their name be sullied. *You are the one looking for these people.* They cant rebrand if youre the one seeking out these fringe perspectives. These are not people with significant influence in the party they are as you admit people vaguely aligned with the party. There are no solutions here besides applying similar standards to Republicans and Democrats and recognizing that extreme Republicans control the party unlike the Democrats. It is unrealistic to expect random impotent voices on the internet not to exist and it is unrealistic to expect Democrats to people able to separate themselves from those voices if people are deliberately seeking out those voices and not actually listening to them in the first place. Democrats are a center right party. I am radical leftist and I wanted Healthcare for all fair minimum wage affordable housing environmental protections abortion access and adequate education for all Americans. My most radical position is that we shouldnt be funding and hiding a genocide for israel. The radical leftists are a boogeyman used to scare people right. So I have no faith in the democratic party and am far too left to fit into their corporate model. The Democrats completely ignored the economy from the workers’ perspective and they did everything they could to turn off men in general from voting for them. That’s why they lost. Actual Democratic policy is radically left as DEI is effectively racial redistribution of opportunity. Theyre going to be treated as radical leftists until they disavow their radical leftist policies that were unpopular and led to this right wing backlash that got rid of them. Until they accept they went too far no one will trust them not to go just as far next time. Many historians denigrate the Qing Dynasty too much. The Qing Dynasty is unfairly very shunned by historians and even casual history fans. In my opinion the Qing Dynasty is one of China’s great historical time periods. The Dynasty even sometimes has the name Great Qing. Which I feel is rightly deserved. People ONLY criticize it because of its pitiful military and political performance during the 19th century and downfall during the early twentieth century. Although that is true the problem I have with that is people most notably Chinese peopled from what I’m aware of seem to act as if their mistakes were mistakes only the Qing leadership would have been capable of making. People act as if if the Ming Dynasty never fell the Ming Dynasty would be incapable of making the same mistakes and wouldn’t have gotten obliterated during the First Opium War. People act like the Ming Dynasty or any other Dynasty or Republic would’ve magically won or just been on par. Can you see ANY Chinese Dynasty be able to successfully defend itself against 19th century European powers? So yes Qing leadership DID fail. But people act like ONLY the Qing leadership would be capable of failing. Also people ONLY think about the 19th and twentieth centuries. What about the late 17th and early eighteenth century? The Qing was very wealthy stable and regionally influential. It was quite the opposite of a failing nation. The Yuan Ming and Qing Dynasty had their glorious early years and poor and weak collapse. Why is only the Qing Dynasty the sh**y” one? Maybe i can change your view by pointing out that for the actual Chinese people the Qing meant a regime that essentially institutionally segregated the Han Chinese its government mechanics are purposefully designed for optimal ethnic surveillance keeping the Manchus forever on top of the Chinese. Firstly the Qing army is split into a main Manchu fighting force the Eight Banner Army and a Han Chinese cannon fodder force Green Standard Army. It wasnt until the 19th century that regional Chinese armies were raised to reform and combat the Taiping rebellion. Secondly the Qing forbid Han Chinese migrations out of what was called the Inner 18 provinces. This was not reversed until a need to counter the Russian threat need to populate the region more. Thirdly the Qing government system is highly irregular from the perspective of traditional Chinese politics. Ming abolished the chancellory Qing followed this rule but also established a military cabinet rough translation in Chinese 軍機處 and it basically became a place where the Emperor can pass orders and edicts bypassing the other departments keeping them in the dark. Also all imperial offices needed to have a Manchu overseeing next to the Chinese this was actually a main point of complaint in Zou Rongs short treatise Revolutionary Army adding to bureaucratic complexity. Fourthly the Qing local government became even more complicated and less efficient because now the government sends a de jure temporary 巡撫 but became de facto permanent. Maybe Qing statistically isnt that bad but from a native Chinese standpoint its not a bright period. I haven’t gotten to this part of The History of China Podcast yet It’s hard for many people to accept that there are / were geo political realities that decide the outcome of events regardless of individual action. Nobody wants to feel powerless to the dead hand of history. If there was nothing an *empire* could do what hope does an individual have? Better to say the Qing were feckless the qianlong emperor basically got china destroyed both by the british and his own corrupt advisors google heshen. he also wrote some of the shittiest poetry there is. You neglect the view that even within the opium wars you mention its demonstratable that the Manchu qing central leadership was the most incompetent of all. If you actually look at each of the hundreds of engagements youll notice the distinct trend of more central government interference = more disastrous results. The bannermen armies were repeatedly routed by the British even when they only used bayonet with absurd casualty ratios like 0 British dead vs hundreds of Chinese dead in a scenario where the Chinese outnumber the British 5 to 1. Thats in contrast to some of the more successful battles such as the second Battle of Taku Fort where the Mongolian leader annihilated AngloFrench forces. You see even more absurd scenarios where the British get defeated in a night ambush against remote Formosan outposts where the defenders were mainly locals left to their own devices. Obviously its possible that any other dynasty wouldve been defeated by the uniquely strong militaries of 19th century Europe but theyd most likely have put up a bit more of a fight while also not subjugating most of the native population as second class citizens. EDIT I read OPs reply about comparison to the Ming and I tentatively agree? Like I couldnt name a good Ming emperor they range from decent to really bad however Ive always taken the 反清复明 sentiment to be a broad return to Han rule sense instead of a literal lets go find one of the Zhu descendants who escaped to Siam and prop him up as emperor sense. The Manchus administered China like a colony preserving Manchuria as their true homeland and profiteering off China proper its quite plausible that a competent government nonManchu whether Han or other ethnicity would do better if their hearts were into it Qing failed to navigate the world stage while Ming had great expeditions and at least knew what was out there. Whether you are great or not always need to be put into context and be horizontally compared. Every dynasty calls itself great. Great song great Ming great tang. But yes qing was one of the longest if not the longest dynasty it deserves some credit The Qing were Manchus outsiders and invaders who came in and conquered China. The Ming were Han Chinese with the Hongwu emperor a former peasant that became a rebel leader who kicked out the Mongols and united China. I think that contributes to why theyre better remembered. It’s not so much an issue with foreign military conquest China hasn’t historically prioritized that anyways but more so the Qing dynasty is not considered an era of great cultural achievement Other eras had the creation of the Great Wall Silk Road Confucianism Bronze Inventions of gunpowder and paper Great Literary works great philosophers and poets fashion spread of culture etc. Conversely one of the most memorable cultural artifacts from the Qing is the Queue which is a symbol of the subjugation of the Han people. Also the aforementioned shitty poetry. Rightly or wrongly the general perception is the Qing ripped off of existing Chinese culture without providing a whole lot of good new stuff. *And then* they fucked it all up in the end. And I think the cultural and technological stagnation played a part. The Ming dynasty had some of the most advanced ships navigation and gunpowder weapons in the world. China during the Han destroys the savages living in huts known as Britain. Tang dynasty had so much trade money and soft power” that war just wasn’t likely. I think the issue is that youre viewing it as a case of defending against the West not in that the West wasnt aggressive and China the defender but that conflict was the only solution. Diplomacy was possible diplomacy where China was disadvantaged and would have had to make some lopsided bargains in the short term but also the possibility of development and modernisation and being in a position where it could no longer be pushed around. China was very much inward facing until Western aggression forced it open. It didnt have to be that way. I can understand why it was but it wasnt necessary. great historical time periods LOL. I remember thinking like this long ago. Historians are like children compared to science &amp engineering. Its fan fiction at some point. Buddy Syndrome could have become a superhero in spite of not being a super” Mr. Incredible refused to take Buddy on as a sidekick and attempted to shut down his aspirations to become a superhero. While attempting to dissuade a child from pursuing such a dangerous profession is what any responsible adult would and should do Buddy clearly had the makings of a superhero. He was a tech genius capable of augmenting his human limitations with cuttingedge technology. He could fly using his jet boots and neutralize an entire family of supers using his zero point gauntlets. You might argue that his personality disorder arrogance and recklessness would have prevented him from being an effective superhero. However he only developed those traits as a result of being made to feel inferior by a superpowered Mr. Incredible who as we all know is directly responsible for Buddy’s villainous trajectory. If he had received proper guidance from a mentor he might have become the next Tony Stark super in spite of not being super. I think thats sort of the point actually or one of them. But critically he only became a serious threat after years of work and presumably training. In the actual prologue his every move caused more problems than it solved. If I recall correctly his actions allowed the villain to break the train tracks that Mr. Incredible had to stop the train for indirectly causing the whole no more supers thing all because of his bumbling. While his inventions were very impressive even at the time *he* was not. He didnt clearly have the makings of a superhero not in competence and not even in attitude. He was more interested as grandstanding than in saving people. So I strongly disagree that his arrogance and recklessness were only developed afterwards because he displayed those in full force in the prologue. If hed actually *asked* Mr. Incredible to be his sidekick and demonstrated that he knew what he was doing that would have been a very different story. Buddy still made the choice to go evil. Instead of going Im going to show him! Im going to be the best superhero ever and prove Im better than he is! And chose to go Im going to invent an unstoppable robot that will kill Mr. Incredible that I can beat with a press of a button and fake my way into being a superhero! Buddy took the absolutely wrong path. So yes he could have been a hero but he chose NOT to be a hero. And that all rests 100% on him not Mr. Incredible. Most people on being told they cant participate in an immediately pressing crisis as a child do not then proceed to plot a genocide of superheroes. This is to put it lightly a somewhat extreme reaction. Especially because we can see how actual human beings react to this exact situation all the time. Regular human children are often told that they cant participate in some highly dangerous activity that they feel theyd be qualified for. This situation infrequently results in genocide. As a result of this Im fairly skeptical of the idea that Buddy was on the precipice of greatness before being cruelly shut down. He obviously has the buttkicking ability for hero work but is slightly too incredibly evil for it. 1. Being a hero was illegal by the time he would have started. He wanted to be famous and praised. Not living some government mandated quiet life and maybe rescuing some people from a burning building in secret occasionally. 2. He wanted revenge against Mr. Incredible. How does helping random people get him his revenge? Both against him specifically and all supers in general for slighting him? Buddy literally was a super. His superpower was intelligence. However he only developed those traits as a result of being made to feel inferior by a superpowered Mr. Incredible who as we all know is directly responsible for Buddy’s villainous trajectory. How do you know that? How do you know that Buddy hadnt already developed villainous tendencies prior to the Bomb Voyage incident? Mr Incredible could have treated him better but Buddy is in no way justified acting the way he did and he was putting himself and potentially others in dangerous. Also his actions as Syndrome make me wonder even with powers or the capalbities to match powered individuals he was utterly unsuited to be a hero Ukraine joining western influence caused Russia to invade Author BackgroundPitch9181Post Text So its not about NATO not entirely anyway. Its about Ukraine joining western influence. This is unacceptable to Russia much less Ukraine joining NATO. Russia seeks political control over Ukraine. Culturally they see Ukraine as brothers of the same blood as them but led astray. Geographically Ukraine is of great importance to them for control over the Black Sea and as a buffer from Western Europe. Economically Ukraine is resource rich and has a port to the Black Sea. Lots of reasons Russia does not want Ukraine to defect to the West. The majority of Ukrainians citizens dont want to be controlled by Russia. They want closer ties to the West. The concept of Ukrainian sovereignty has always been a thorn at Russias side. They once tried to achieve their own independence from the Soviet Union in the 1930s. Joseph Stalin starved them into submission research holodomor. Russia has always gone through great lengths to control Ukraine and Ukrainians have not forgotten the atrocities from generations ago. While Ukrainians have friends family colleagues business partners and even share a common language with Russia many Ukranians dont want anything to do with Russian government. Viktor Yanukovych former president of Ukraine is Putins preferred president. He is very proRussia and Putins obedient lapdog. Yanukovych suddenly and shockingly reneged on an agreement with European Union instead choosing closer ties to Russia against the will of the people. The people revolted in what is known as the Euromaidan protests or The Revolution of Dignity. Ukrainians were sick of Russia corrupting their country from the inside. They threw Yanukovych out of power. This did not sit well with Putin. He responded by taking Crimea shortly after to maintain control despite the revolution in Ukraine. The invasion of Ukraine was the next phase. So to say the expansion of NATO is not what prompted Russia to invade Ukraine youre not wrong but not entirely right either. The crux of the invasion is Russias loss of control over Ukraine as their people rejected their proRussia puppet government and wishes to be closer to the West. Ukraine joining NATO may have been the logical progression from that which from the Kremlins point of view must also be prevented at all costs. Russia doesnt want any of the dominos to fall and Ukraine joining NATO would be a domino way further down the line. TLDR Ukraine breaking free from Russian influence and becoming closer to the West is the source of conflict. Ukraine joining NATO may have been the logical progression from that which Russia absolutely wishes to prevent despite it not being the primary reason for the invasion. Finland and Sweden have always been aligned with the west so I don’t think them officially joining NATO has changed much from Russia’s perspective. **EDIT/Main point Euromaidan protests and Revolution of Dignity. Those WERE what prompted Russia to invade Ukraine. So by that reasoning one could argue it was Ukraines fault by starting the revolution but its not a coup just to clarify**. **Ukraine leaving ties with Russia by the start of The Euromaiden Revolution first steps to join Western Influence is what started The War. Therefor since Putin was mad about The Euromaiden Revolution he invaded but if The Revolution didnt happen The War in 2014 and 2022 would have never happend. So was it really worth it to do a revolution? Look at it now. Millions are suffering as a result of pissing off Russia in 2014 by doing The Revolution.** Critique?. EDIT 2 View officialy changed thanks to a good discussion u/TroopTheLoop Isnt that a bit of a tautology? Thats just what all invasions are attacking a country because they refused to be under your control and obey your preferred policies willingly. Nations rarely ever randomly surprise attack a neighbor that they had zero demands of control against they usually present an ultimatum first for the neighbor to surrender and obey their will. If the neighbor doesnt *then* they invade. If the US tomorrow invaded Canada we could say that the reason for it is that Canada refused to voluntarily become the 51st state. If Iran invaded Israel it would be because Israel refused to install a palestinian led onestate solution and insisted on being a jewish state instead. If China invaded Taiwan it would be because Taiwan refused to acknowledge One China Policy. Your entire post is Russia thinks this way Russia feels that way Russia prefers this. Ukraine didnt do any of those things which annoyed Russia. Kind of sounds like youre saying Russia caused the war... Okay sure? No value judgments in this assertion? Its kind of like saying Bill the Bully beats up Jimmy every morning because Jimmy tried to make friends with people he likes share his values and would help him defend himself against Bill and Bill doesnt want that. I think you kinda missed the forest for the trees in the length of your post. You answered the root of it when you wrote Russia wants political control over Ukraine and to have it as a buffer. Everything else is just fluff and Ukraine seeking the West is directly tied to the fact of Russia being an aggressive neighbor if i dont want to get bullied by you you cant say that me not wanting to get bullied is the reason im getting bullied and pretend its actually my fault. the reason Russia invaded Ukraine is because Russia wanted to be in control of Ukrainian land. thats it. Yes? I think it is fairly obvious that the point of this war is to exert Russian control on Ukraines territory and that Ukraines movement away from that control is what sparked the invasion. I dont think thats really even a question for anyone. Even people who say it has to do with NATO are saying the same thing as you just that the NATO moves were a sign of how far Ukraine has moved away from Russian control. I dont think anyone is arguing that it was the NATO threat alone that sparked the invasion but that the NATO threat was the natural progression of a Ukraine trying to escape direct Russian control. I guess Im asking who do you think youre arguing against here? What would be the opposite to your viewpoint? Was the invasion of Georgia in 2008 or the Russian support for the territory of Abkhazia about preventing Western influence from growing or maintaining Russian power? What about the Russian crackdown on Chechnya? Or the targeted use of assassination political recriminations and jailings of dissidents within Russia? While Putin clearly doesnt like it when elements of the Russian sphere look elsewhere for support Id say it has less to do with him fearing them being chummy with the West and more to do with it not fitting into his conception of Russia as the vanguard of USSR Mk. II. If I really hated when people eat tomatoes and you ate a tomato in front of me and I responded by punching you in the face would claiming that you eating the tomato was what caused the assault be reasonable? why deny any agency of the aggressor? Russias aspirations of regional domination and Russia being unwilling to allow its neighboring countries to make their own foreign policy choices caused this war. I agree that Russia feels like it should be able to control Ukraine. I dont see how them not wanting to be controlled makes this their fault though. Russia has agency and they chose to invade. Theyre not some cornered animal that just cant help themselves. Your post feels a lot like victim blaming. Ill add another layer to this Russians mostly borders failed democracies and autocracies. Most of all the two most similar nations to them being Belarus and Ukraine with Kazakhstan as a 3rd. Ukraine has always had lower living standards and just about the same levels of corruption as russia. Ukrainians and russians were quite linked with multitudes of people having links on either side of the border. Joining the West would mean prosperity democracy and lawfullness for Ukraine. Ever since deposing the oligarch Yanukovich Ukraine has been constantly dropping in the ranking of corruption. Now imagine for alligning with the West becoming less autocratic Ukrainians end up being not worse off than russians but much better off. What kind of ideas would that give russians? Russians are complacent because they never lived better as bad it is it is better than 20 or 30 years ago now theyd have an example how alligning to EU/NATO and getting rid of authoritarianism would benefit them. Also from the stance of the regime this could possibly be seen just as much inspirational to russians as it would be to Belarusians which might lead to them losing their allied autocracy in Minsk. So the reasons for the war are multifaceted 1. Prevent Ukraines prosperity inspiring change in Belarus and russia 2. Steal Ukraines natural resources and strategic locations 3. Use the war as a pretext to enshrine their own power in russia For them proper victory would have been expanding into resource rich parts of Ukraine and keeping Ukraine miserable under a Lukashenkostyle dictatorship imposed by them keeping/expanding their sphere of influence. Now whatever they do even tho they might get away with stealing the Donbas and Crimea they have forever lost Ukraine as an ally and partner let alone an underling and their influence as a whole sufferred. Russia has been shown as an incompetent bully. You position here seems to strip Russians of any agency whatsoever in their own actions. Russia seeks political control over Ukraine. Culturally they see Ukraine as brothers of the same blood as them but led astray. This is the reason Russia invaded not Ukraine forming closer ties with the west. Russia wants political control over Ukraine and they are willing to use force to achieve it. Everything else they cite as a justification for that is just them attempting to rationalize what is an otherwise unreasonable expectation. Russia has no right to demand other countries adopt any particular foreign policy. They have no right to demand that their neighbors must like them or else. **Russia** chooses to interact with the world on the basis of deal this or else.” They could choose a more cooperative foreign policy they simply aren’t willing to do so. That is their choice—but the consequence of their actions that are based on that policy are their own fault. Russia is responsible for Russia’s invasion of Ukraine. Nobody else. Russia is the country pursuing a policy that sees violent invasion of a neighboring country as an acceptable response to a diplomatic snubbing. 1 Certainly Russia invaded because they feel they should control Ukraine that Ukraine is in Russia’s sphere of influence.” 2 Not sure I agree about Finland. The appearance of Finnish neutrality if not actual neutrality during the cold war was extremely important to the USSR. If Russia actually had the ability to fight a world war Finland joining NATO might have set things off. You mean like in the same sense that an abuse victim planning to leave their partner causes their partner to strike them? The attacker is still to blame. Why do you make Russia sound like a passive player here? They have full autonomy. They could have not invaded Its none of russias business who Ukraine chooses to align with. Antizionism is antisemitism. Zionism is the belief that Jews like all other peoples have the right to selfdetermination in their ancestral homeland. You can criticize the Israeli government like you would any other but when someone argues that Israel—the world’s only Jewish state—should not exist at all that crosses a line. Unless you oppose all nationalism everywhere targeting only the Jewish form of it demands an explanation. There are dozens of nationstates built around a dominant ethnicity religion or culture. Nobody calls for the dismantling of Japan Poland Pakistan or France even when their governments do things we disagree with. So why is it only the Jewish state whose existence is treated as illegitimate? If your issue is occupation you can oppose it. If it’s policy speak up. But rejecting the entire idea of a Jewish state while accepting others is not neutral. It singles Jews out. That is the definition of antisemitism. Push back if you disagree. But start by explaining why Jews uniquely don’t deserve the same rights as other peoples. Jews like all other peoples have the right to selfdetermination in their ancestral homeland. Do Palestinians not also have the same right to their ancestral homeland? In 1914 the Muslim to Jew ratio was greater than 5 to 1. Do you support self determiniation at that time? Then it would have voted to be a Muslim nation. Unless you oppose all nationalism everywhere targeting only the Jewish form of it demands an explanation. So do you mean that if I do oppose all nationalism everywhere antizionism *isnt* antisemitism? By your logic? It is untenable to judge political beliefs exclusively as abstract elements divorced from the way they are applied. Trying to separate the occupation from the beliefs that drive that occupation is comically dishonest. Clearly what Zionists define as self determination is more exclusionary violent and openly supremacist than the self determination I believe all people deserve. Zionism has also been the rationale for murder rape ethnic cleansing torture etc etc. The issue isnt the underlying premise of Israel can exist its everything else that defines Zionism. Id say its similar to antifascism theres nothing specifically intrinsically wrong with securing a future for white people and white children as that doesnt exclude a future for people of all races but as soon as you start talking like that and shaving your head and waving a Nazi flag its more than reasonable to oppose that even if the core message someone is trying to defend can be present led as harmless or even just a recognition of human rights. If you ideology is one tied up with war crimes and human rights abuses you have to own those too. Man this selfdetermination argument is getting boring. The Kurds don’t have their own state. Neither do the Basques Catalans Scots Kashmiris Tibetans Abkhazians Ossetians Lombards Igbo Oromo Uyghurs Tamils and Québécois nor dozens of other peoples who have created nationalist movements to seek selfdetermination but failed to achieve it. Yet barely anyone suggests that opposing a Kurdish or Catalan state makes you an antiKurdish or antiCatalan bigot. It is widely recognised that states based on ethnic nationalism – states created to represent and protect one particular ethnic group – are not the only legitimate way to ensure public order and individual freedom. Sometimes it is better to foster civic nationalism a nationalism built around borders rather than heritage to make Spanish identity more inclusive of Catalans or Iraqi identity more inclusive of Kurds rather than carving those multiethnic states up. You’d think Jewish leaders would understand this. You’d think they would understand it because many of the same Jewish leaders who call national selfdetermination a universal right are quite comfortable denying it to Palestinians. The unavoidable corollary of jews have the right to selfdetermination *in their ancestral homeland*” is that the palestinians cannot have the right to selfdetermination in theirs. In order to create an ethnic jewish state in a place where jews were a minority in necessarily entailed robbing the palestinians of their own right to self determination either through apartheid or ethnic cleansing There is an overlap between the two. It should not be hard for anyone to understand how hating a Jewish state can translate to hating Jewish people. But they aren’t the same. Jews were overwhelmingly antizionists until the Holocaust and even to this day there are Jewish sects like Satmar which oppose Zionism on religious grounds. Zionism has also been the rationale for murder rape ethnic cleansing torture etc etc. The issue isnt the underlying premise of Israel can exist its everything that Zionism is defined by in terms of how it actually operates in reality. Id say its similar to antifascism theres nothing specifically intrinsically wrong with securing a future for white people and white children as that doesnt exclude a future for people of all races but as soon as you start talking like that and shaving your head and waving a Nazi flag its more than reasonable to oppose that even if the core message someone is trying to defend can be present led as harmless or even just a recognition of human rights. If you ideology is one tied up with war crimes and human rights abuses you have to own those too. This framing oversimplifies the criticism and creates a false binary. Either you support the existence of any Jewish state or you are antisemitic. The core issue for many critics is not about whether Jews as a people deserve selfdetermination in theory. It is about how that selfdetermination was realized through the mass displacement of another people who also had a legitimate claim to the same land. When you invoke nation states like Japan or Poland you are referencing countries where national identity largely arose on land where that population had a continuous presence and where in the modern era nationhood did not depend on forcibly displacing an indigenous population. The founding of Israel is entangled with the Nakba the forced expulsion of hundreds of thousands of Palestinians who to this day remain refugees. Criticism of Israel’s legitimacy often arises from that historical context not from some inherent belief that Jews do not deserve a state. Many would also oppose any modern state that was created through large scale ethnic cleansing whether Jewish Slavic Arab or otherwise. This is a principled stance against settler colonialism not a singling out of Jews. Demanding that critics start by explaining why Jews uniquely do not deserve the same rights as other peoples misrepresents their position. The issue is not abstract Jewish rights. It is about justice for the displaced and occupied Palestinian population in a specific material context. It’s not just their ancestor homeland. Why do they get to literally take people’s houses and land that have also lived there for generations for thousands of years? \ Push back if you disagree. But start by explaining why Jews uniquely don’t deserve the same rights as other peoples. Theres a number of issues in your statement. And most of them boil down to the issue that if you give the right to ONE group you need to give it to ALL groups. \ Selfdetermination in their Ancestral homeland. This means that any group that can show they occupied territory AT ANY POINT now has a legitimate and legally binding claim to all the territory they once held. And that includes claims going back to the Bronze Agemera of the Old Testament. for reference that gives the following countries claim to basically the entirety of Europe Germany Nazis 1\`9411944 Napoleonic French 18051812 The Italians Roman Empire 200BC300AD the Turks Byzantine Empire 500AD. In addition you are giving Turkmenistan claim to basically all of Asia including China Genghis Khan c. 1200AD. Spain holds the right to all of the continents of the Americas north and south. Portugal holds the right to the far east. You have also given the green light for Russia to capture all of Ukraine the Baltic States and the central Asian stan countries USSR 19251991. Current definitions of selfdetermination NO LONGER APPLY because ancestral homelands. \ There are dozens of nationstates built around a dominant ethnicity religion or culture. True. Theyre called nationstates \ So why is it only the Jewish state whose existence is treated as illegitimate? Because states that have more than one nation in them have an obligation to treat those other ethnic groups in the same manner as they treat ALL their citizens. Those countries that do not DO face sanctions and condemnation. The US and most western democracies consider the consent of the governed to be a core principle of government. Those countries that deny the vote or representation to large swathes of the people under the control of that government are violating that core principle. By violating that principle the US Declaration of Independence calls for the right to rebellion against that government. Which is what the Palestinians are doing rebelling against a government that controls their lives but denies them basic representation and rights. Right here right now the Israeli \*\*government\*\* not Jews not Judaism but the secular manifestation of the elected government is engaging in actions that closely fit the definition of genocide targeting civilians starving noncombatants overt attempts to drive entire populations from their land By committing acts of genocide the US government is obligated by treaty to cut off ties with the GOVERNMENT of Israel and to end that genocide including by the use of military force. By treaty the US is obligated to not respect the authority or legitimacy of the GOVERNMENT of Israel. TLDR consent of the governed is a foundational tenet of governmental legitimacy. And genocide is an actionable reason to delegitimize a government. Israel is violating one and committing the second. [removed] No other people have sovereignty over their homeland. That’s not how sovereignty normally works it’s only how apartheids work. In France for example self determination is not reserved exclusively for those of French heritage but rather anyone with French citizenship. In Israel . Like all other peoples” is a key and wrong assumption you start with. Lots of places are the ancestral homeland” for multiple racial or ethnic groups. It doesn’t mean they get to move back in and kill everyone there. Your opening framing misses a ton of cases — do you think native Americans should get to conquer and dominate everyone else in America? The case there is much stronger since much of their land was stolen by the same political entity now occupying it. Also it happened in very recent memory so much harder to claim that the current population is unrelated to the loss of the homeland”. Unless you support the subordination of American Canadian and Australian governments to their aboriginal victims then there’s no way to claim that everyone should get their ancestral homeland back. And even if you do there are many cases of mixed ethnic areas and multiple homelands so the foundation of this claim just falls down. Zionism is the belief that Jews like all other peoples have the right to selfdetermination in their ancestral homeland. by this logic wouldnt it be true that all white black and asian people should be kicked out of north America and/or control of the land giving to native Americans? If your issue is occupation you can oppose it. If it’s policy speak up. But rejecting the entire idea of a Jewish state while accepting others is not neutral. It singles Jews out. That is the definition of antisemitism. American for Americans not America for whites. Sweden is for Swedes. white people from France are not necessarily welcome in Sweden despite being the same race as most sweded. Zionism is openly racist. its a state for a specific race not a specific nationality. The people that lived there when the state was form only got full right if they were the right race. Its overtly racist in a way that is different some simple nationalism. Israel was created by taking away land from others and this happened due to euro governments making it happen. there is nothing wrong with being against that. can you name another ethnic group that was given land that was on others land? Did Africans get gifted africa? did japan get gifted japan? did Mexico get gifted Mexico? what in the hell are you talking about saying that jews deserve to be given land? Do the Palestinians that got displaced from those areas deserve self determination as well? The state of Israel was formed by kicking out hundreds of thousands of people. The individuals kicked out have millions of descendants and many of them are currently stateless. Wanting them to be able to return to the lands that were stolen from them and for them to be able to live under a government that is not the one that was formed by the people who kicked them out does not inherently require any malice against Jewish people. \ is not neutral. It singles Jews out wanting a right to return and for those returning not to have to live under Israels control isnt about the Jewish people. Its about the descendants of the people who were kicked out during the Nakba I live in the US. If my family was kicked out of the country and my home stolen and I wanted to be able to return and didnt want to live under the government that did that to me would I be singling the US out of malice? No that would just be wanting to go back home. \ antisemitism I think opposing Israels existence is correlated with antisemitism. Wanting to kick out 7 million Jews from their homes is inherently antisemitic. And trying to abolish Israel without doing that is risky and difficult to see how it would work. But some people are just focused on the interests of the descendants of the people who got kicked out of their homes in the 1940s and were not allowed to return home. That doesnt require bigotry. In the same way that focusing on the interests of the Jews who were kicked out of so many places and ended up in Israel doesnt require malice toward Muslim Palestinians. Why do all people need to be in their ancestral homeland? Nobody argues against the US existing purely because the inhabitants are not in their ancestral homeland so one could be against Israel existing in the specific place it currently exists and not be antisemitic I do oppose all nationalism everywhere”. When right wing Brits talk about the invasion” of Britain by immigrants and that whiteBritish people will be a minority in their own country I oppose it. Does this mean that my antizionism isn’t antisemitism? Nowhere in human rights philosophy or law is there a right to selfdetermination in your ancestral homeland. And nowhere is there a right to form or be a part of an ethnostate where citizenship is dictated by your ethnicity. That is ultimately a racist and discriminatory endeavour. As an aside Id wonder if your personal believe in the universal right to selfdetermination in ones ancestral homeland means that your support armed repossession of the USA by Native American peoples or the armed repossession of Australia by the Aboriginal Australians or of New Zealand by the Maori? Or perhaps you support the British being driven out of Ireland in its entirety or the Afrikaans people being driven out of South Africa by the black majority? You point to nation states built around a dominant ethnicity but thats mostly inaccurate. France was not built around the principle of creating a home for white Gallic people. It was like most of Europe formed over centuries by different peoples and rulers including pagans and Gauls and Goths and Romans. Not to forget different Jewish peoples. In the 19th and 20th centuries France saw immigration from other parts of Europe the French colonies and North Africa. Then significant numbers of Poles Russians and Armenians. Then Vietnamese and Algerian and so on until the present day. I oppose any country defining its membership based on religious faith ethnicity or race. All states should have equal rights. No ethnostates. Wrong . What do you mean by Ancestral though? Even your Ancestors committed genocide against the indigenous populations canaanites and forcefully occupied it. This is written in your ancestors bible... It was never yours. History is repeating itself. The problem with Zionism isnt that it gives the jews the right to selfdetermination but it steals other people land for religious reasons. I don’t believe people have the right to self determination in their ancestral homeland though. For anyone. I believe people have the right to self determination but not the ancestral homeland part. Any state that has rules based on what ethnicity you are I think sucks. Any state that has de facto rules based on what ethnicity you are also sucks. Are Jewish people who are opposed to Zionism antiSemitic? Are they all just selfhating bigots? So you believe that millions of Jewish people who dont believe in Zionism are antisemitic. And sure if you change the definition a ton you can make it antisemitism. Zionism only definition is from its father. The advocacy of a Jewish state. Its location was not part of the definition like all other peoples Is that a thing that people believe in though? I dont think anyone should live in anyones ancestral homelands but move to where they want to and can afford to live in a globalized world. Unless you oppose all nationalism everywhere You talked about peoples not about nations. They are not the same. Why does every people need its own nation why cant they all mix? All current ethnicities religions cultures will be gone in a few hundred or few thousand years anyway. Not to mention the intermixing of religion with nationality thats a big problem. No christian jewish muslim hindu whatever state should exist at all. And in the western sphere of influence many countries are tending towards being secular. The thing thats unique with israel is that not being secular is being defended in public discourse. Noone deserves a nonsecular government. Jews like all other peoples have the right to selfdetermination in their ancestral homeland. In fact Jews like all other peoples do NOT have such a right. Who would even assign such a right? Where would it be codified? Do you understand what a right is? I think that youre conflating antiZionism with wanting the abolishment of the first Jewish state and displacement of the Jewish people which I can understand there is a rise of genuine antisemitism and there is a plethora hateful actors who have coopted AntiZionism into an anti semetic movement. But I am an AntiZionist because I disagree with how Israel conducts its existence I dont think it shouldnt exist at all on the contrary I want a safe nation where the Jewish faith and its people can be free and thrive but I dont want it at the expense of Palestinians. I dont solely criticise Israel I criticise my own country as its origin was a colonial project and the fallout is still felt today I criticise America for the way it conducts it existence I criticise Iran and Afghanistan for the way they conduct their existences. If you lived in Palestine during the Nakba and is one of the approximately 750000 Arabs kicked out of your home by the Zionist movement how are you supposed to oppose the ideology that lead to kicking you out of your ancestral home without being antisemitic? No religion has a right” to their own government No government has a right” to exist Before I address your core points I need you to clarify your view by answering two questions 1 what is your definition of antisemitism? 2 based on that definition why is antisemitism bad/immoral? Zionism is the belief that Jews like all other peoples have the right to selfdetermination in their ancestral homeland. All human beings are ancestral to Africa. Is it antisemitic to say that African countries shouldn’t be forced to give up their land to Jewish people? You can criticize the Israeli government like you would any other but when someone argues that Israel—the world’s only Jewish state—should not exist at all that crosses a line. Why should anyone support the existence of a Jewish state of it comes at the expense of the human rights of indigenous Palestinian people? Unless you oppose all nationalism everywhere targeting only the Jewish form of it demands an explanation. There are dozens of nationstates built around a dominant ethnicity religion or culture. Nobody calls for the dismantling of Japan Poland Pakistan or France Yeah but those countries are not settler states nor do they practice apartheid against their indigenous peoples. On the other hand Israel is a racist settler state that does commit apartheid against Palestinians in the West Bank. Push back if you disagree. But start by explaining why Jews uniquely don’t deserve the same rights as other peoples. I don’t support Israel as a Jewish state because Israel is a racist apartheid state that’s built on the stolen land of the indigenous Palestinian people What if a person is an antizionist on the grounds that the Jewish ancestral homelands was the current homeland of another people group? This persons antizionism allows for jews to live just not to displace the Palestinians. Wouldnt this require Zionists to support *every* nationalist movement in order to be consistent? So do you support Kurds Mormons Zoroastrians Sikhs and *Palestinians* getting their own states in their ancestral homelands? If someone says Israel shouldn’t exist because it’s Jewish” yeah that’s antisemitic. No debate there. But not everyone who’s antiZionist is coming from that place. Some folks oppose Zionism not because Jews shouldn’t have a homeland but because they believe any state built through displacement and ongoing domination whether it’s Jewish Islamic Hindu or anything else carries a moral cost that can’t be ignored. They’re not saying Jews uniquely don’t deserve safety or sovereignty. They’re saying nobody’s safety should come from someone else’s permanent statelessness. The reason people don’t call for the dismantling of Pakistan or France or the U.S. isn’t because they’re fine with those states it’s because in most cases the historical window to reverse the damage is gone. But Israel is still actively occupying displacing and expanding. That makes it more immediate not more targeted. If you flatten all antizionism into antisemitism you erase the voices of people Jews included who are wrestling honestly with what justice survival and liberation look like when they clash on the same patch of land. You don’t have to agree with them but it’s not hate just because it rejects a nationalism you believe in. [removed] As a Jew I disagree with you Zionism is the belief that Jews like all other peoples have the right to selfdetermination in their ascestral homeland What does selfdetermination even mean in this context? It sounds like a word meant to obfuscate the actual meaning. Do you mean they have a right to _take over_? Unless you oppose all nationalism everywhere. Most progressives/liberals _do_ oppose nationalism everywhere. So thats like half the population. Zionism is the belief that Jews like all other peoples have the right to selfdetermination in their ancestral homeland. Ok. I assume you would also support that Native Americans pushing people of other ancestry out of their homes. Murdering them. Carving up their land so that they have no freedom of movement. Block off their access to food aid and healthcare. Maybe those people should go back to their ancestral homelands as well. Lots of German people in Wisconsin. So I assume its ok for them to go push people out of their homes and murder back in Germany. And so on and so on. **Right to selfdetermination has a limit.** The right of one person to selfdetermination doesnt get to infringe upon the rights of others. If you think their right to self determination excuses murder theft. and genocide then you are wrong. Should white people have a right to form a white ethnostate? Would it be antiwhite to not support a white ethnostate? There’s plenty of people who want to abolish all states myself included. But on the topic of Israel they favor the immigration of the Ashkenazi diaspora while denying immigration of communities like the Beta Israel from Ethiopia. They also heavily discriminate against the Mizrahim the only ones who can be tied to the region genetically. Jewish doctrine says that Jews are to be a people in exile. But really a genocide is being committed in the name of their god and there’s not a damn thing in any religious text or ethical stance about self determination that can justify that behavior West shouldnt be dragged into israels problems [removed] Nobody calls for the dismantling of Japan Poland Pakistan or France Quick question Do you support the dismantling of the UK as in the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland or do you oppose the reunification of the ancestral Irish homeland ? The religious Jews who are anti Zionists still very much acknowledge the Jewish connection to Israel. They just believe that a theocratic Torahbased state will be hand delivered by God someday in Israel rather than the secular modern state. [removed] Employers who dont hire people with excessive tattoos or piercings are not being discriminatory I firmly believe that employers who choose not to hire individuals with excessive or highly visible tattoos and piercings are not engaging in discrimination. The simple fact is that getting a tattoo or a piercing is a choice. No one is born with these modifications. Unlike protected characteristics such as race gender religion or age which are inherent body modifications are elective. Therefore it is not wrong for an employer to choose not to hire a person for having them on display especially if they are excessive. While it is a persons choice to get tattoos and piercings it is equally an employers choice to set appearance standards for their workforce. From an employers perspective having employees with extensive visible modifications might not be considered good business particularly in customerfacing roles. Businesses have a right to cultivate a specific image or professional aesthetic that they believe aligns with their brand and customer expectations. An important distinction I would make is for religious tribal or minimal tattoos and piercings. In these specific instances there may be grounds for an exception as some body modifications hold deep cultural or spiritual significance or their minimal nature doesnt impact professional appearance. However for the vast majority of cases where tattoos and piercings are a matter of personal aesthetic choice and are excessive or prominently displayed an employers decision not to hire based on appearance is a business decision not discrimination. I am genuinely open to having my perspective changed. Some states already have protections for discrimination against things that are purely choice. Political affiliation for one. Weight another which many people view as a choice. Although that one can be argued. You list religion with characteristics like race and gender and age. Why? Religion is a choice. Nobody is born a religious follower. Theyre taught it growing up sure. But even someone born into an atheist household is protected if they choose to join a religion. Or if someone chooses to convert to a different one. Federally we also offer protections to pregnant women. Outside of rape cases pregnancy is generally viewed as a choice. If we already protect against discrimination due to choice why should we allow discrimination for the choice to get tattoos and piercings? I agree with the thrust of your argument but when you get into defining the lines between fashion culture and religion its actually a lot harder to nail down. For example piercings and tattoos are common within the goth subculture a subculture that people have been murdered for belonging to. Does this count as having a \*deep\* cultural significance? I am not a goth although I do wear nose and ear piercings which have a cultural significance in my south asian heritage. But imo my need and desire to express that doesnt mean its deeper than someone goth or whatever. For me its about looking professional but the norms which shape what is professional need to be shaped by society at large rather than simply the preferences of the ruling classes as it were. No you probably dont want a lawyer who has a facial tattoo saying bitch but I also dont care about someone having a couple of visible pieces even in professionals. But thats just my own sensibility others have their own. I dont think anyone says its discriminatory especially in the legal sense. I think most people just think its unfair or outdated practice Who decides what is religious or spiritual if I get a colander on my forehead and say I worship the Flying Spaghetti Monster is that protected? Or is it only real” religions? Depends on how you mean discrimination… Do you mean in the legal sense? You are correct If you mean in the general sense then you are incorrect. Discrimination in the general sense means to allow characteristics which have no impact to override those that do. So it would NOT be discrimination to hire a less tattooed but equally qualified individual but it would be discrimination to hire a lesser qualified individual only because the more qualified one has more tattoos. This is damaging to the business and unfairly stigmatizes something which has no real impact on the person’s performance. Example if it’s a sales role and the tattoos would impact sales then again it’s a characteristic which DOES impact performance but If it’s a car mechanic or software developer or whatever then it should not impact the hiring decision You could potentially argue that they arent illegally discriminating or immorally discriminating but by definition they are discriminating. If there is a group of people whom you are separating from another group of people then you are discriminating even if you have a legal or moral justification for doing so. Refusing to hire anyone who wears a blue tie in the interview is discrimination. Refusing to hire anyone isnt wearing a hat in the interview is discrimination. Refusing to hire anyone who doesnt like coffee is discrimination. Even if we acknowledge there may be legal or moral reasons to do so. Couldnt we also say religion is a choice? You dont have to practice or identify with the religion you were born into. Ethnicity is also considered a protected class but we have the choice to renounce our ethnic identities. Im sorry religion is inherent? Religion is a choice. People often change their religious beliefs multiple times throughout their lifetimes. Some people have no religion at all. Religious belief is arguably no different than political belief or your support of a sports team. So how exactly is me choosing to get a small tattoo on my arm any different than me choosing to go to church on Sunday? What inherent biological motivation is behind religious belief? If you can understand how refusing to hire a woman you dont find fuckable to a phone answering job is discriminatory you are capable of understanding that hiring based purely on appearances is discriminatory. protected characteristics such as […] religion […] which is inherent This feels like a leap no? People do choose to follow their religion there may be some feeling of duress at a young age but by adulthood most people are willing followers of their religion. Given the stated logic how do you rationalise religionbaseddecisions being considered discrimination even though it is elective. Why does a cultural or religious significance hold more weight than a personal significance? What is the difference between minimal” and excessive” tattoos and piercings? Your opinion or the government’s? I think for positions where appearance is explicitly needed like a model or if the tattoos are vulgar and visible this makes sense. But the question is whether or not the policy is stated upfront and adhered to universally. For example should an employer exempt religious tattoos but not a tattoo of Super Mario? On what basis or argument would that make sense? Eyebrow piercings are fine but nose piercings arent? They are absolutely being discriminatory but they may not be acting unlawfully or be unjustified in their discrimination. If their primary motive is profit and they believe that their customers will be repelled by staff with visible piercings and tattoos then it makes sense not to hire those people. Theyre discriminating but theyre justified in doing so from a capitalist perspective. As a trained anthropologist and evolutionary biologist M.S. There are many cultures around the world to which tattoos and piercings are culturally significant even encouraged. The Mursi people of Ethiopia are known to use lip plate labret piercings. Tattoos originally tatau are from Samoa. Hell some of the oldest evidence of tattoos is from over 5000 years ago. Look up Ützi the Ice Man— he was preserved in a glacier for millennia and has some of the best and most wellpreserved tattooed skin on record. I recommend reading Smithsonian Magazine’s article on the history of tattoos. It’s fascinating. Body modifications have existed for millennia— it makes everything seem inconsequential. Societies and Empires have fallen been built fallen again and very few things can resist time. Art and human expression will always be one. Let’s at this point acknowledge that body mods and American traditional professionalism we are told are water and oil. A lot of people perceive that if someone has tattoos or piercings they are a miscreant or drug addict. They may assume they don’t have good hygiene or if they are intelligent. They may assume the person won’t be a good worker or won’t be respectful. But what are those assumptions based on? Why do those things connect in people’s minds? I know people with tattoos and piercings who ARE illtempered! I have never known a good person with them.” I point above again to the history of tattoos. Billions of people in the world have have had and will continue to have body modifications for as long as we will exist. It’s narrowminded to assume they are *all* the same in manner— basing your decisions on whether or not someone has tattoos or piercings would be acting upon that narrow perspective. Franz Boas’ theory of cultural relativism applied here means that employers who don’t hire people with tattoos are acting on a moral code that is not shared by all or even most of the world. It is presuming that the way *your society* does things is somehow more important or superior to another’s. That’s ethnocentrism. Laws are often made with the hope of speaking to the future— protecting body modifications as a characteristic would be one way legislation would be trying to include ways of life that have as much of a right to be here and exist as American traditionalism. Note Cultural relativism is the idea in Anthropology that that ideas and morals of one culture can’t be judged by a different culture’s standards. They must be known by their original cultural context. This relies on the fact that there is no relative truth” in nature— humans divvy up our world in many various ways. As a tattooed white collar worker it has 100% been my experience that anyone who cares to not hire someone because they have tattoos\* is also 100% someone who I would never be able to work for anyway. They obviously have archaic conservative views and those folks treat their employees the absolute worst in all ways. \*Like all things there are exceptions so if someone has a giant cock tattoo on their face we get why they are not getting the job. Hopefully a different approach can cut through the noise treating a person or particular group of peopledifferently especially in a worse way from the way in which you treat other people because of their race gender sexuality etc. The word has Latin roots with discriminare meaning to separate” or to distinguish.” Originally discrimination” in English carried a neutral connotation denoting the ability to discern or make fine distinctions. This sense of the word is still present in modern definitions but has been changing. While I acknowledge that dictionaries have to adapt to words’ common usage I believe our societal discourse around racism and inclusion has become confused because we blur the meanings of key words. As a result even neutral acts of distinction get vilified. This creates a cultural pressure to avoid offending anyone — to please everyone and everything. This is not to deny the existence of harmful prejudice and racism. It’s simply to argue that we should normalize selection processes again. Because we can’t stop discriminating. During job interviews an employer discriminates against candidates with worse education. Even someone who prides themselves on being openminded inevitably chooses friends who reflect their own values — which is a choice against other ideologies. In life decisions are inherently exclusive. Every yes is a thousand no’s. In that sense the only thing that never experiences discrimination is indecision. Edit indecision can lead to discrimination if you don’t do something about certain developments which makes the whole discourse even more confusing and paradoxical. Where exactly do we draw the line between selection and harmful prejudice? Your premise is flawed. It is by definition discrimination. The difference as you explain is it is not discrimination based on a protected class which means it isnt illegal. Legality does not change what it is though and that is discrimination. I see what you mean but cultures a real wishy washy point. I grew up white trash around the SoundCloud emo rap phase. Cringe to many I know. But because of this the culture my youth gave me was grimey basements and stick and pokes tattoos with deep personal spiritual significance. I was always aware these things that mean the world to me could hold me back in careers! All of mine are coverable by a button up shirt for specifically this reason! But being a notch wiser aka less spiritually free than my peers doesnt say anything about my capability. So many of them are better workers than me. Some of my tattoos are slightly religious while not adhering to mainstream religious views. If the job requires a t shirt after the interview they will immediately become visible. Yet thats not a reason I can be fired. So the defining line clearly isnt culture its how a person will be viewed by a customer. Im sure many think thats fine but the rules are in place to prevent a hiring managers personal bias from discriminating as well as the publics. Some will see this as a reach but if we allowed that to be the line as a society many places wouldnt hire minorities to appeal to their less than moral customers. So yknow I think its all or nothing. Either were okay with discriminating against anyone a customer might not want to see regardless of their gross reasoning or we think thats dumb. I like thinking thats dumb because I think it leads to a more accepting world where that stupidity is shamed. Visible tattoos in a professional job? Im not sure why being required to cover tattoos would be a big deal. Some professional jobs require a business suit. If you choose not to dress appropriately you will not get the job. Covering tattoos is more of a dress code issue. So are piercings. You can remove them when at work. People with tattoos and/or piercings are not a protected class like gender age and race are. Discrimination is when you make hiring decisions based on criteria unrelated to the jobs requirements. Certainly those protected classes you mention represent a lot of the most common forms of discrimination but that doesnt mean other forms of discrimination arent possible. If appearance is part of the job like publicfacing employees in retail or food service then considerations about visible tattoos are relevant and nondiscriminatory. But if you are trying to hire a database administrator or a forensic pathologist you may very well rule out your best candidates if you discriminate based on appearance. The presence or absence of tattoos while indeed a choice tells you nothing about the persons suitability for the job in these cases. It is no different that discriminating based on political views transportation preference regional origins or any other nonprotected class. Transitioning is also a choice. Not being transgender of course but the act of transitioning itself. You dont have to do that you choose to do that. So by your logic if I want to open a business and say trans employees welcome! But if you get top surgery youre fucking fired that cant be discrimination because you chose to get top surgery and werent simply born with tits. I know that comparing a nose ring to a whole transition is kind of apples to oranges but if your baseline for discrimination is did you choose to do the thing or not then where do we draw the line? It sounds like somebody doesnt understand what discrimination is. We arent born fat we end up there by life choices. It is discriminatory to not hire someone over their weight so why should this be any different? Maybe we should do this for people who die their hair to not show their gray hair? Or we should only hite people off of political beliefs. So maybe we should fire all democrats since a republican holds the presidency? I dont know maybe we shouldnt hire people who dont commit themselves to Christianity? Also this is 2025 not 1980. Personally I dont trust people with visible tattoos as much because it looks like they are being seeking attention too much. Definitionally it is discrimination. Whether or not it is legal or moral discrimination is an entirely different question. But discrimination is just treating different people differently for a specific reason. Unlike protected characteristics such as race gender **religion** or age which are inherent body modifications are elective. One of these things is not like the other. But I agree with you except I think we should be allowed to discriminate religious people. Nose rings. Barf. I went to a restaurant where the server had a nose ring. I couldn’t look at the server without getting nauseous. I’ve never gone back there. Same thing with a rotten teeth server at a different place years ago. I never went back there either. Personal choice is hard enough to define — and as others have suggested there are a myriad of ways that our culture struggles to cleanly draw a line between which effects are created through personal agency and which are the result of circumstance. Individuals who don’t know better about metabolism dieting the food industry and the effect of stress on the human body tend to assume that weight is a choice. Their assumption aligns proportionately with a lack of understanding/education. On its face this framing may not apply favorably to tattoos. However individuals who seek to undermine the LGBT+ community will often frame our identities and presentation as a choice — and I would argue that this is no accident nor should it ever be written off as lowlevel bullying. When others push this framing into the legislative framework they aim to codify the parameters of what can reasonably be considered a personal choice. And we’d like to conveniently assume this isn’t the same mechanism that gives way to genocidal violence but it is. And it’s in line with all the other ways queer people are currently being treated. We need to be more globally aware of the warning signs as they crop up — at the end of the day no group is safe from this. It starts with the most endangered groups and works its way up. The ways that employers break us down to determine how well we align with cultural standards isn’t as defensible it may seem. If some things are choices then you believe you have agency. When *everything* is a choice you won’t have one anymore. It was never just about tattoos. *”Then they came for me — and there was no one left to speak for me”* Just to be pedantic based on your wording choice Employers who don’t hire people with excessive tattoos or piercings are not being discriminatory” is incorrect. To discriminate is to make a prejudicial distinction in treatment of different categories of people. We have several legally prohibited types of discrimination. But any other choice you make to select person A over person B is discrimination. Hire the Bachelor’s degree over the high school diploma? Discrimination. Hire the person with 8 years of experience over the one with no experience? Discrimination. Date tall guys over short guys? Discrimination. Date goths over normies? Discrimination. Choose the neat freak over the slob as a roommate? Discrimination. Hire the person with no visible tattoos or unusual piercings over the one with overt tattoos and piercings? Discrimination. Choose to watch a romance instead of a horror flick? Discrimination. We all discriminate all day every day. Some forms of discrimination are accepted and even expected. Some will earn you the sideeye. And some are illegal. Trivia it was once considered a compliment to call someone discriminatory. It meant they were someone that was careful in their life choices. Common parlance these days is that it means they are unfair in their choices. Your post would be more correct if you said …are not being unfairly discriminatory” Kinda a weird argument… Whether or not a particular no hire” was discriminatory has nothing to do with free will and choice. Which is probably good because it’s an open scientific question in neuroscience whether we have it at all. Are psychopaths making a choice? Probably not should we hire them in customer service? Also probably not. A hire is discriminatory just in case the hiring party thinks candidate C would be worse at their job BECAUSE C has features F where features F have nothing to do with the skills required for the job. It’s really as simple as that. Nothing about choice. It’s about losing the candidacy for irrelevance. When some features are objectively not relevant to a skill set and yet taken to be indicative of the fact one doesn’t have that skill set unfairness has obviously occurred on some level. And this is so independent of whether those features were acquired by nature or nurture or some magical bootstrapping freedom of the will. If your job involves meeting clients who may be judgmental tattoos and piercings can have something to do with the job” because the job is customer relations and sales are influenced by such perception. In these cases I can see how visibility of mods could be relevant to one’s ability to make a sale. But most jobs are ofc not face to face sales and most skills don’t give af if you have tats and piercings. Weird choice of examples. You cannot choose race or age but you absolutely can choose a religion. Are you advocating for removing it from protected groups based on it being a personal choice? So the the job I was in before this was a retail job. Want to take a guess at who consistently was top 3 in sales? The woman with neck and hand tattoos the guy with his neck and throat tattooed from his jaw line down and 2 full sleeves and myself who has a full sleeve and a visible tattoo going across my collarbones and the pit of my throat. Honestly most of my conversations with customers besides the standard how’s your day?” where about my tattoos because I spent a lot of money on them and they’re straight up art. The raven looks like it’s about to fly off my arm the snake looks like it could strike you if you grab my wrist and the hummingbird with brass knuckles has prints on paper by the artist that did it. The one on my collarbones is a quote from an old Norse war chant that holds deep meaning to me as a Norse pagan. Then you get into jobs like the trades and tattoos literally don’t matter in the slightest. By definition it is discrimination to not hire someone simply because they have piercings or tattoos it’s just not necessarily illegal. As someone with piercings including a nose ring and tattoos I really do not care if someone doesn’t want to hire me because of those things but I’ve never really understood why. What makes a nose ring or any facial piercing really more unprofessional than regular earrings or a necklace or a ring on your finger? Why does having art on your body somehow mean you cannot do your job successfully? It’s always been confusing to me that people associate piercings and tattoos with being unprofessional. I think a lot of this stuff just comes down to norms and culture. In my generation even if you don’t like body modification it doesnt necessarily mean anything about who you are as a person to have them because it’s normalized and common. To different generations body modification is linked to criminals prisons gangs etc. But really I do think this mindset is dying out pretty quick. I live in an extremely conservative state and I’ve still never had an issue getting a professional job due to my piercings or tattoos. I’ve never had anyone comment on them in a negative way in any setting actually. Since when is religion inherent and not a choice? But I do agree with your Logic It is also no different to why ugly people can’t sue for not being hired as a model. Since when is religion inherent and not a choice? But I do agree with your Logic It is also no different to why ugly people can’t sue for not being hired as a model. I think you have a definition of terms issue here. To discriminate simply means to chose between... You have multiple options and have the ability to select one over the others. There is nothing that prohibits discrimination in general or no one would ever get hired. Every employer makes a choice to hire someone. By default that means they are discriminating against everyone else. Now legally there are some things that are protected classifications. You are prohibited form discriminated based on those characteristics when hiring. Those are typically race religion sex/gender age etc.. You are 100% free to discriminate based anything that is NOT a protected characteristic. So when you say ... an employers decision not to hire based on appearance is a business decision not discrimination. that is 100% false. That business decision IS discrimination. But in the case of tats and/or piercings it is highly likely that it is *permissible* discrimination. The distinction here is not between what is or isnt discrimination as you are putting forth. The distinction is whether or not it is permissible discrimination or impermissible discrimination. Religion is inherently elective. Do you believe that individuals should be able to be discriminated against their beliefs on that ground too? It’s discrimination based on stereotypes and stigma about the kind of people who get tattoos and piercings. If the applicant is qualified for the job and has a good resume/references they should be hired. Tattoos and piercings can also be cultural. Or the applicant might have made some body modifications in their youth that they now have to live with regardless of their education and job experience now. Personally I only have two small tattoos that I can easily cover with a long sleeve shirt but I feel safer in any establishment hospital restaurant store bank etc. when I see a diversity of people working there including people with tattoos and piercings. My partner is a business owner with hand tattoos and other visible tattoos and she frequently gets questioned about them. She laughs rude comments off and chalks it up to having a wild phase in her youth” but it sucks that people judge her for a part of her appearance that she can’t change now. Religion is chosen. You can be indoctrinated but you can also be stripped of religion. Yet choosing by religion is discriminatory. i dont think my personal decision to get tattoos is any less meaningful than a person getting them for religious reasons If you make it legal to discriminate against things like piercings or tattoos or other appearance based things it weakens antidiscrimination legislation. Laws are tricky and allowing employers to discriminate on things like that can give them a gray area when they are discriminating against protected classes like race gender religion etc. Some cities and states have included hair as a protected status in employment because historically hair has been used to discriminate against people based on race — specifically Black people with curly hair. Something similar could probably be used as an excuse to discriminate against people for something else like gender race sexuality etc. You agree there should be some allowance based on religion tribe etc. but where would the line legally be drawn somewhere between minimal tattoos and piercings” and that line would probably involve a lot of ethical questions without an objective answer and a lot of lawsuits. How can there be an exception for religion and not for everyone? What difference does the reason they got it make? Are you implying that those employers are really discriminating against something else such as excessivity or general unusual appearance rather than tattoos and piercings specifically? If so yes I agree. Most employers who hire people with few/small tattoos and piercings but dont hire people with many/large tattoos and piercings probably dont have a problem with the idea of tattoos or piercings in itself. They probably just have a problem with anything that looks excessively unusual to them. However I dont think discriminating on the basis of general appearance unusuality is ethically any better than discriminating on the basis of a specific appearancemodifying thing that is considered unusual. So it really doesnt make any practical difference—neither to the employers nor to the potential employees. Religion is also a choice. I dont think I should have to hire anyone who follows and Abrahamic religion. The only part I want to challenge is are not engaging in discrimination. It’s textbook discrimination. Discrimination isn’t inherently wrong though we all do it all the time. You do go on to say therefore it’s not wrong…” suggesting THAT is the view you want challenged? This is a bit trickier. Wrong morally? Maybe not. Is it unjust though? Probably. What is the justification? I can’t think of very many jobs even customer facing ones where tattoos and piercings would affect performance. Doctors Lawyers Researchers Engineers and more high class/white collar” jobs are full of tatted and pierced folks nowadays. Things changed a lot since the 90s. I work as a manager for a big multinational BPO. I have 0 tattoos of piercings however many members of my team including people in leadership positions and even my boss. Have many tattoos including the Neck for example. This has never been an issue for anyone dealing with Clients including really high profile companies that are the biggest in the world. Many of them are among the highest performers you can get I do not know how it is in the USA at the moment but for my experience in Europe no one cares about this anymore and if you exclude people based on that the only thing you gain is missing out talent. It’s literally discrimination. It’s is not discrimination against a protect class like race or gender true. But it is discrimination. Discrimination just means dividing between two things based on some sort of criteria and in the case of social issues treating people differently depending on that discriminating factor. For example many employers discriminate against felons in hiring. This is generally considered acceptable but it’s still discrimination. So yeah it’s literally discrimination like irrefutably. I think what you are trying to say is there is nothing wrong with and employer discriminating based on these things”. But as to whether it’s discrimination or not it just is. There you go. It might help your perspective to know that historically speaking the stigma against tattoos in the west stems primarily from a mixture of racism and classism. If you dont see how racism would factor in you do not know nearly enough about the history of tattooing. a business decision not discrimination Those are not mutually exclusive. An important distinction I would make is for religious tribal... tattoos Well I have some fascinating news for you about literally the entire origin of tattooing as an art form and cultural/religious practice. With tattoos heres an easy question to ask yourself. If people *could* choose their skin colour/ethnicity would that make racism acceptable? Assuming your answer is no why then is prejudice against people choosing to colour their skin with tattoos acceptable? Another way to look at it is that youve already given multiple examples where tattoos are fine. Namely if the people doing it are doing so because of personal beliefs. Why does someone elses personal belief grant them mercy in your eyes where someones personal preferences does not? An important distinction I would make is for religious tribal or minimal tattoos and piercings. In these specific instances there may be grounds for an exception as some body modifications hold deep cultural or spiritual significance or their minimal nature doesnt impact professional appearance. You should probably add at least one other exception in a similar vein tattoos to hide medical conditions e.g. burn victims who have e.g. facial tattoos to camouflage their scars or people with skin conditions grafts etc. I am an employer and can confirm that I have had to fire 100% of the people I have employed who have neck tattoos. Including one was OK *until* getting a neck tattoo and then fell apart once said tattoo was completed. Yes you may say that my sample size =/= infinity so I cannot *know* that everyone with a neck tattoo is destined to be fired. But its a significantly large enough sample size that I am pretty reluctant to take the chance on another neck tattoo hire crashing equipment into brick walls. I just need to say that having visible body mods/tattoos/piercings has very little if anything to do with customer service. I have 5 very obvious facial piercings and several hand tattoosand often vividly unnatural colored hair and have been among the top in customer service at every customerfacing job I have ever had to the extent I was often excluded from other duties to focus on customer facing ones. Anybody who thinks piercings and tattoos make you bad at customer service is woefully misguided. You think religious beliefs arent a choice and are inherent ? Oh boy Religion is not inherent. Tattoos can be a form of religious expression. The cultural shift from tattoos denoting sailors prisoners and hard men is well underway. If the only difference when hiring is the number of tattoos comparing minimal to excessive then amount needs to be discussed and agreed upon but its still discrimination. Practical limitations aside Ive always felt if the difference lies in how you look rather than the output its discriminatory. You are locking into the most common use of the word discrimination. It commonly has a negative connotation but the reality is discrimination can simply mean noticing the differences between things. So in a literally sense if you dont hire someone for having tattoo and piercing is discrimination. The argument I think you meant to make is that you dont think it is wrong to discriminate based on these things. But to your challenge I win. lol It’s absolutely discrimination. That doesn’t make it unlawful discrimination. People discriminate all the time on all sorts of things. When you pick friends and romantic partners you probably discriminate on the basis of their personality traits and social skills. Neither of those are illegal either even if it were for a job interview. Just because something isn’t racist sexist homophobic etc. Doesn’t mean it isn’t discriminatory. just because they have a right to run their business that way doesnt mean it isnt discrimination. the question of discrimination is a different question than whether its legal which is a different question from whether its wrong hurts people or whether it would bring about a better society for them to do it differently. and society would definitely be better off if the status quo was to judge people by how they behave instead of how they look. Its simply an illogical ideal thats became pervasive in the professional industry and yes discriminatory in a certain sense. If I want to be pedantic by the definition of discrimination not hiring based on tattoos or piercings fits the definition. But more importantly than that its simply stupid. In the modern world tattoos and piercings arent any different than the choice of clothes someone wears. It doesnt affect ability work ethic professionalism anything really. Havinf a tattoo or piercing doesnt make someone any better or worse a worker and building off of that what someone would like to wear in the office doesnt either. Professional standards for appearance are completely arbitrary and serve no purpose in the modern world and hiring based on them is not only discriminatory its stupid Political opinions and religion is similarly a choice. So what? You can make a business decision to not hire old people. Based on appearance. If you believe that a person with a piercing will be worse as your cashier vs a person without piercing you are being discriminatory. Business decision is when you hire and hire people based on their skills and performance. If piercing makes them perform worse that is not your problem. When their piercing make you perceive them worse that is your problem because it is discrimination. As someone with tattoos this is a conversation I had with a former employer. It was in a customerfacing industry and there are still people who believe that only criminals get ink. He wasn’t interested in hiring people with certain looks simply because he had a large customer base many of whom were elderly and didn’t want to risk losing good customers because someone had a face tattoo Do you not know what discrimination means? They are literally making decisions based on a category. That’s textbook discrimination. Now is it unjust? That’s a whole other story. Is my comment completely semantic and totally going around the spirit of your post? Yes. But they are engaging in discrimination. And if that don’t change your mind then consider rewording your post Of course they are discriminating. To discriminate is to distinguish and treat differently something we all do every day. The pertinent questions are 1 Is this true discrimination or false discrimination? 2 If it be true discrimination is it in the public interest to let it continue? 3 If it be against the public interest would a law against it be practically enforceable? I actually agree with you. However the argument can be made that these people have changed and shouldnt be passed over for an opportunity they are qualified for just because of dumb tattoos they got before. I have worked with people who have a full sleeve in the office and theyre as good workers as anyone else. I cant play devils advocate for face tattoos however. This sounds absolutely wild and outrageous to me. I think every single person on this horrible and tragic and beautiful earth should swallow some major chill pill and adopt the stance live and let live. Why on earth should companies hideous capitalistic most of the time have the right to pick and choose? We should all collectively move away from this mentality.. The problem may not be the business but the customer. Do you think the majority of investors would want a stockbroker covered in visible tattoos? I think probably not. If that is the case why would the brokerage firm want to hire the tatted broker? What about at the dentists office? Do you want an arm covered in tats reaching in your mouth? the unjust or prejudicial treatment of different categories of people Unjust is arguable but they’re definitely showing prejudice in not hiring someone because of piercings tattoos or favorite food. It really isn’t up for debate and it isn’t an opinion. Not hiring someone because of X about them is discrimination by definition. It technically is discrimination. Like dictionary discrimination. But its an ok kind of discrimination. Many customers would be put off by a worker with lots of tattoos/piercings so it could affect business. And most people with tattoos/piercings got them as adults knowing fullwell it could affect their career prospects. of course they are discriminating they are choosing between options thats called discrimination! but I agree its not bad discrimination its appropriate discrimination in many cases. the truth is that tattoos especially on the face and hands scare people! right or wrong it is a real effect that we should account for I mean they are but the purpose of hiring itself is discrimination. Youre discriminating agaismt ppl who do a poor job wont show up on time are drug addicts etc. Discrimination isnt a bad thing its a necessary thing. Discrimination based on immutable characteristics is just wrong because it denies people a chance. Lots of people get tattoos then complain about being treated differently because of said tattoos. I think they just want attention... and theyre getting what they want. Personally I would choose not to hire them but I wouldn’t mention that the reason is their excessive piercings. In the end you cant force someone to hire you and its difficult to blame them for their preferences. I would simply say that I preferred another applicant’s profile or something along those lines I dont want to hire someone who dyes their hair from Gray to Brown. That is an unnecessary body modification. In fact if I ever find out they got an elective surgery like removing a mole or stitching a cut that was unnecessary to be stitched well they will be out on there but so fast Stop being a boomer As someone who has both piercings and tattoos and been denied a job for the tattoos it is a form of discrimination but is the choice of the employer. Now it being an allowable discrimination yeah it is. But i also believe a business owner should be able to deny anyone they want employment. I would say It depends on the job. Its understandable to not want to hire someone with a face tattoo as a face of your business. This may drive away customers. But it is not justifiable to not hire them for work in the back assuming they are qualified and dont have a criminal record. The reason those are protected classes is because discrimination is inherently legal with certain characteristics/classes deemed illegal to discriminate against. Not hiring someone or people based on their tattoos or lack thereof is discrimination but is perfectly legal 99% of the time. They are objectively engaging in discrimination. The meat of your contention is that thats acceptable. But make no mistake it is absolutely discriminating against something. Whether its bad or not is irrelevant it is unassailable that someone is selecting against an attribute. When I bought my car the salesman had his shirt buttoned all the way up to his neck and it was in August he said that he had a neck tattoo and he had to cover it up. I think it’s more about where the tattoos are located on the body and whether they can be covered up if needed. It is discrimination Your argument falls apart because youre not even talking just about the people who are dealing with the public as potential customers Employers are dictatorial this type of silliness shows that Its just an excuse to power trip with what little power they have its a slippery slope against expression What kind of world do you want to see? They are discriminating even if not against a protected class. And they are discriminating on behalf of discriminatory customers in order to make more money from those discriminatory customers. So yes it is discrimination even if not against a protected class of people. While I agree with some of the thoughts. I think it really depends on the type of job. If you’re dealing with the public I can sort of see that. If you’re in a manufacturing plant where you do something that isn’t seen everyday. Who cares. Is being gay a choice or not? People cant agree on that so it only makes sense that protected classes have to exist for both kinds of things. Inborn immutable characteristics as well as identifying traits that might involve some degree of choice Making an exemption for religion is bullshit and shows that you really have no argument for this. Basically that means you think some people can do it and others cant based on your own bullshit in your head. No. You just want to control people. If youre judging someone on something not related to the task youre discriminating against them. It may be legal but its still discrimination. Just like the signs in the 60s that said long haired hippies need not apply. I mean when you say excessive youre already basically answering the question you know? What is considered excessive probably is different for different employers depending on industry location clientele and so forth. While I disagree I’m too lazy to argue about the whole not discrimination portion of your argument…but why does anyone care . Unless you have a tattoo of a hate symbol mind your own business. Unless there is a safety hazard why would a tattoo or piercing means you are worse at your job? It depends. If the person is customer facing I agree. If they are not who cares? Its stupid to give a shit if someone sitting in a cubicle all day that never sees a customer has tattoos or anything else. Does technical competence or experience or education or any other myriad factors that will actually affect job performance come into play at all? Or are job interviews just solely based on appearance? We must have very different ideas about what the word discriminatory means. I agree that people should be able to discriminate based on personal choices but I dont agree that it isnt discrimination. I wonder who the final arbiter of what excessive or overly visible is. Who gets to decide what these words look like on a body? These are *highly* subjective terms to base anything on. Having a child is a choice and one that has major consequences. And I might be wrong but at least in my country its discriminatory not to employ a woman because she is pregnant. By definition of the word discrimination they are very obviously discriminating. Discrimination is NOT wrong. Discrimination for things someone has no control over IS wrong. Businesses have the right to discriminate against people with tattoos. I think in an ideal world people would only get hired on their merit but unfortunately excessive tattoos and piercings is a sign of mental instability in today’s culture. Religion is elective. They are being discriminatory. It is legal discrimination. If you are stupid enough to get a neck tattoo you can’t work for me and if it is my decision even with me. Religion is a choice Religion is inherent?? [removed] Well getting excessive face tattoos or piercings is a good indicator on bad decision making skills which is not ideal for any position of employment. If I were an employer as long as you show up do your job at the minimum standard and don’t cause drama I don’t care. Personal policy though Discrimination is discrimination. Everybody discriminates all day every day. So yes its discriminatory. Not all discrimination is bad. Religion isn’t inherent”. It is often culturally rooted but practicing any faith is a choice. Tattoos can also be culturally rooted. Im usually pretty tolerant of tattoos but I draw the line at face and neck tattoos. They are a quick way to make yourself unemployable. So if I was to get a nose ring and say I got this based upon a deeply held belief in irrationality would that qualify? It is by definition discrimination. However in my opinion individuals or businesses should be free to discriminate. In many indigenous communities tattooing is an inherent cultural or religious practice. Anti tattoo is anti indigenous. So gender race and religion are protected choices but no top surgery tattoos tribal markings or bindi. Got it. Well they are discriminating. Your argument is really discrimination is alright in this case. I agree with that. Im fine with the rest but youre using the word discriminatory wrong. They are absolutely being discriminatory. What about certain tattoos.for example gang affiliationKKK or Nazi? Anti LGBT? Where do you draw the line? It is exactly discrimination. The very act of choosing or not choosing something because of some attribute it either has or doesnt have is pretty much the dictionary definition of discrimination. They are quite literally being discriminatory. Is your argument that this discrimination is acceptable? By the definition of the word discriminatory they literally are. You just think they are justified. How come a pedophile and rapist can be a CEO but a a normal person with tattoos can’t be a cashier? It’s by definition discrimination. The question is if that kind of discrimination is justifiable? They are being discriminatory but it’s perfectly legal to do so in most if not all places. Looking professional is an incredibly lame aesthetic that the world needs to move on from Hiring on appearances is discrimination. The only thing you can ask for is modesty My massive scars were way more unsightly than the tattoos I got to cover them up. For customer facing roles yes. But it would also depend on your customer base. Pregnancy is also a choice but pregnant women have plenty of legal protections Its definitionally discriminatory. What do you think discrimination means? Religion may be protected but its not inherent. Were all born atheists. Tattoos are a choice judging people based on choices is perfectly fine. Deciding to hire or not hire based on anything but the ability/willingness to do/learn the job is discrimination. Image of any type is just that an image. Someone covered in tattoos and piercings but not have large ones on their face neck and hands might secure the same job someone with 2 large tattoos in very visible places cannot. The tattoos on either person have zero relevance to their work ethic competency and people skills. Thats like saying only skinny people can work at a gym because of image. People can be skinny while not properly caring for their nutrition and exercise properly. People can eat well and work their butts off while having health problems keeping them from losing the weight. The second type of person is less likely to be hired and more likely to be best for anyone visiting your gym. Its by definition discrimination. Its simply legal discrimination. it’s 2025 more people aren’t afraid of expressing themselves with the little time we have on this earth. idk cause if i walk into your business and everyone looks like Karen and Jake clones i probably wouldn’t return. the best services i’ve ever gotten were from people who looked like that the clean cut people are usually rude as hell or only nice if they think you’re about to give them a big tip or make a big purchase. non customer facing? i’d probably not interested in interacting with my coworkers if i was employed there because they would just look boring and uninteresting like no i don’t want to hear about your five kids 2nd basketball game of the year. i worked in a tech company last year and was very loved for my unique look which made me want to come in and work hard Choosing to discriminate against a choice is still discrimination. There will be little to no consequences to Donald Trump from Elongate I get the impulse to celebrate the falling out between Donald Trump and Elon Musk over the last twelve hours as the potential beginning of the end for Donald Trump but I dont believe there will be any meaningful consequences for him. Trump has weathered scandal after scandal and emerged unscathed. Remeber 1/6? It seemed very clearly like that would be the end of Donald Trumps political career if not more severe. That perception lasted a couple of days until conservative media figured out how to spin it. Badfaith actors. Notso violent. It was justified because the Dems actually did steal the election. The cops allowed it. The excuses were nonstop each as vacuous as the next but were eagerly lapped up by the MAGA base. Well see the same dynamic unfold here. In fact it has already begun. Elon is ujst upset by the removal of the EV subsidies. Elon is mentally unstable. Elon is a plant. It never stops. Once conservative media gets a hold on this they will come up with a nice narrative that their base will get behind and the socalled moderates will follow. If 20202024 didnt push them into witholding their support nothing will. As Trump said he really probably could murder someone in broad daylight and get away with it. Whats a little pedophilia? Elon has a record of putting his money where his mouth is at the very least he could make enough donations to Senate Republicans to sink Trumps big beautiful bill. Have you considered that some people are just enjoying watching Elons stock tank and him fight with Trump for the sport of it? I mean we dont need to think this is some definitive shift for Trump to celebrate the fallout for the good parts. Think about it Elon went nuts and burned his dedicated liberal zombies by aligning with and assisting Trump in his early rampage through the federal government. While now he has no loyal customer base and is feuding with the cult leader and the only people who were buying his cars **and they want to get rid of the EV credits**. Its hilarious. Trump lost a funding source. An extraordinarily large funding source. Donald Trump just spent the last 6 months giving Musk a unprecedented and dangerous amount of access to protected information. He was also very close to his campaign and was credited by Trump as a reason why he won. Musk will with little doubt be the one who is hurt far more than trump in this upcoming spat but Musk likely knows where some skeletons are buried. The only question is what skeletons is he willing to point out that dont selfincriminate. [removed] Can you elaborate on what consequences Trump should expect from their public breakup? [removed] Trump needs this bill to pass if he fails to get it through this tiff with Elon where he brought attention to the massive addition to the deficit that it is could be one of the reasons why. Another thing is Trump and Elon have a huge fanbase in common. Alienating supporters by this fracture is only going to be a negative for Trump as some people will undoubtably side with Elon over Trump. He lost some support already with this trade war. Trump is a populist he lives and dies from maintaining the illusion he has the majority of America on his side. If that support vanished or drastically downgraded it could prove too much for his ego and crazy shit might start happening. Its not the beginning of the end of Trump to be sure nowhere close. But thats a different thing than there being little to no consequences. That said theres always been a rift between the techbro right and the MAGA right and this childish spat loses Trump the techbros. Particularly with Musks twaddle about creating a third party all those dudes parading around in their cybertrucks arent going to come back to the Trump camp or even the GOP until Elon says its ok. The arguments you mention will keep MAGA onside but they wont hold the techbros and if Elon is sufficiently spurned he may go all the way back left again. That wont necessarily convince anyone on the left but his money still spends and thats a consequence for Trump particularly in the midterms. The potential spoiler in all of that is that it has exposed Elon as stupid enough to have believed that Trump ever tells the truth and that the leopards wouldnt eat his face because hes Elon. It turns out he fell for Trumps grift just as hard and long as anyone ever did despite all the red flags and every warning signal in the world. That might give the techbros a bit of pause for continued support of Musk as that mythical Tony Stark persona theyve given him but its not the kind of pause thats going to push them in Trumps direction. It might be a minor consequence but Trump lost any spin control Elon was doing or more likely mandating be done for him on Twitter. Sure Trump himself is not on Twitter anymore but a lot of his supporters are. Second any Money Elon was providing to support Trump’s policy that doesn’t actually align with Elon’s politics will go away. Heck some that does align with Elon’s politics might go away if Elon is feeling vindictive enough. Third Trump now is solely responsible for the cluster fuck that is the department of efficiency” and what they’ve done. The most balanced read I have is that nothing will happen to Trump.... directly. But Musk has access to a lot of funding knows where too many skeletons are buried and has his own cultist sycophants planted in agencies they shouldnt be in with DOGE. The effects wont be immediate or direct but neither of these men know how to play nice or do anything other than Attack Attack Attack. Theyre both gonna leave this fight bloodied with their powerbase weakened to a fair degree. Consequences for Donald Trump means in reality not getting the continued backing and majority in the Republican Party. If the billionaires who do a lot of campaign contributions realise that doing that means nothing … because if Trump is publicly shaming Elon he could pick on you too they are not going to contribute to mid terms. Which will mean a lot of unhappy republican politicians and potentially unemployed republican politicians… and without a major party trump becomes very much a lame duck for the next 2 years. So it’s a bit of linkage sure. But this spat could spill into Trump just being a figure head. Can you explain why you expect Jan 6th to be career ending for trump when he only supported peaceful action and was overtly against the violence? 5 people died in the jan 6 riot/protest. Meanwhile many politicians supported the BLM protests/riots. 36 people were killed as part of those riots. The politicians supporting the unrest all also emerged unscathed. So why wouldn’t we expect the same outcome for a lesser incident with trump? It depends lots of these MAGA influencers like Ian Miles Chong make money off of Twitter. Theyll go wherever the money is like the ones who were secretly paid by Russia. Itll be interesting to see where people like Rogan decide to back. If Musk gets Rogan then youll have his base support Musk. Musk can also primary any republican who doesnt support him. Its unlikely most democrats will allow him back into the fray but well see. It certainly wont have any immediate or direct consequences to Trump but Elon still has the ability to throw his money around in ways that could be counterproductive to Trumps agenda. Doubt any MAGA people will be getting Elon money during the midterm. But for the most part yeah this is just another 24 hour news cycle bullshit that people will stop caring about in a few weeks. Honestly people who are super plugged into the daily political circus should just check out and spend their time and energy towards really anything else. This stuff is not even worth paying attention to. Musk might be the only person who can hurt Trump. Richest man in the world. Has a huge hand in multiple government contracts. Owns a propaganda machine. High level troll. Has inside knowledge of the administration and potentially sensitive information from all his government data mining. And Trump loved him literally two days ago. It’s going to be hard for Trump to pull his old He’s disgruntled I fired him never knew the guy” schtick this time and his cult buy it. I don’t think there will be a winner in this fight. I think they’ll destroy each other equally. Elon is a petty vindictive man. He has an unfathomably large amount of money. It is quite possible that Elon will decide that it is worth spending hundreds of millions of dollars to punish Trump. He spent around $250 million on the last election. It is quite reasonable to think that $200m and a VP role would be enough to convince 10 republican congress men and 20 senators to impeach and convict Donald Trump. The consequences are on US not the two guys fighting in public who love making a show. For all you know they don’t give a shit but want to help distract the public some more Call your elected representatives to make sure they vote against the stupid big beautiful bill act. Elon Musk has the funds to donate to every candidate that runs against politicians who voted for the big beautiful bill. His money can be very convincing and he runs X. I’m not ruling out him being able to orchestrate Trump being impeached or at least his agenda getting mired. Well what do you mean by consequences? Trump just lost his biggest source of political money so he cant use ELon donating to get senators and congressmen on side with his wishes. That alone is a big loss and consequence for Trump so weve just proved this point wrong. Trump’s coalition is fragile. It’s comprised of many different groups swing voters MAGA traditional conservative Christian nationalist tech bros gen z men latino men and so on. Trump’s fight with Elon will an impact on how Gen Z men + tech bros view him. Trump unintentionally won the culture over. Elon lent Trump his credibility as the smartest businessman and in turn he gained credibility with the tech world and Gen Z men who idolized him. Trump has been slowly losing credibility with the tech and crypto world. At first they thought he was on their side establishing a decentralized currency reserve. Now they realize he’s a grifter because the only people who invent new meme coins” are people just trying to make a quick buck. The fight with Elon is the final nail in the coffin. Elon controls one of the largest social media platforms. If you’re on truth social you’re most likely a Trump super fan and this news won’t sway them. However Twitter is full of persuadable conservatives/MAGA and turning Twitter against Trump could erode his support from X shit posters. Losing the culture and Elon’s wallet will have an impact on Trump. Elon is hinting that he’s supporting republican challengers in the 2026 midterms. He wants to usher in a new 2012 Tea Party era where nonestablishment” Elon republicans flip a couple of seats. If Democrats take back the house and a few Elon republicans win this could be a disaster. It makes it harder to whip votes because you have republicans that are not loyal to Trump in power and they could be key votes for impeachment + investigating Trump. There will not be a fatal consequence” that anyone can predict at this point. Instead It’s a death of a thousand cuts. This just makes things worse and opens the possibility for a third party that splits his fragile coalition. The initial coverage was a lot of Who are the congressional republicans going to side with?” They can still serve two masters make additional cuts to government programs to make Muskrat happy get the bill passed to make Mango Mussolini happy. I think theres one clear consequence that youre ignoring increased difficulty holding his coalition together. Remember Trump is just one man and he doesnt live in an autocratic system where he can just have inconvenient people murdered. He has to work through other people specifically his cabinet and even more so Congress and Senate. Trump is already at the limit of what he can achieve by executive action and much especially his beloved tariffs is likely to be overturned by the courts. To do more he needs Congress to pass laws. The rift with musk risks a larger schism between the nationalist Steve Bannon part of the party and the business/tech side of the party. With Elon musk and his merry friends going against Trump it gives congressmen and senators cover to oppose Trump as they can oppose Trump and still have Musk and friends bankroll their reelection campaign. If Musk can peel off even a 10th of Trumps congressmen that essentially would render Trump a lame duck who cant do anything. Trump is still attached to running again in 2028 so he needs to show his base progress and stack the courts so he can run again and have the courts ignore objections. The Trump coalition is weaker without him. Musk brought money and tech and a propaganda website and he has his own fan base. Thats $300 billion less that the Trump coalition controls. Were so conditioned by Hollywood to think that everything happens quickly and that everything is all or nothing but actual fascist regimes die because their coalitions slowly broke down bit by bit until the people were more powerful than they were. And that takes a lot of fractures and a lot of years but every fracture brings it closer. The effect of ElonTrump dynamic is complex indeed. On one side it is true that Elon is a huge bank roller of Trump so theoretically the rupture could lead to less money for Trump. However one must consider that he is already a lame duck president that Elons support was not enough for the Wisconsin Supreme Court seat and that Elon was merely an advisor to the President and if Trump does cut a bunch of Elons contracts his net worth could diminish over time. Elon Musk has also lost the support of his fellow democrat comrades. Nevertheless one must realize that Elon could in a lot of ways quietly and anonymously fund Congressional Campaigns that could undermine Trumps legislation over the next few years. Money without a name is still money. In addition Musk could run ads against Trump that are pretty catchy and he could start do the 501c4 dark money route. So there might be consequences yet just by no means legally in the short term. Evil wins when good does nothing throws its hand up accepts conveniently cynical reality. Elon will radicalize more in favor of antiestablishment politics than ever before. That’s why he’s talking about forming a third party. He will take the young incels and the pseudolibertarian tech bros” with him which will siphon off a good chunk of the MAGA cult. Trump of course will survive politically but his persona will be diminished. When it comes to political capital Trump is fast approaching bankruptcy much like his Atlantic City casinos. Elon has a megaphone even larger than Trumps. Elon had come out strongly against Trumps BBB. This is already having an effect. Others are jumping ship the bill seems to be stalling in the Senate and its unlikely the House could pass anything else before elections. If enough Dems pick up seats in the house and senate its likely that Trump will be successfully impeached. Its not certain but its foolish to think Musks effect will be meaningless if continued. The only possible consequence and the only consequence that matters is if Elon is successful in fomenting sentiment against the OBBB. A smattering of republicans coming out to say they have issues with the contents of the bill and wouldn’t vote for it again in the wake of Elon’s break with the administration suggests the cracks are starting to show. I don’t know that anyone is realistically suggesting Trump’s administration will somehow end over this. Of course nothing will happen *yet.* It depends on how much dirt Elon has and how he weaponizes it. Trump might be Teflon Don but well know just how loyal of a party he has constructed if Elon decides to drop something seriously and provably damning not just hypotheticals *hes on the Epstein files.* Rats will always try to flee a sinking ship and if any one of Trumps loyalists senses a change in the wind theyll seek to protect themselves first. If they *dont* and Elon *doesnt* do anything more than hurl mean girl words at Trump his loyalists should be strong enough to protect him from whatever consequences and bad press if that even exists at this point. The test of this couples spat isnt with Trump or Elon but the people surrounding them and who breaks first is going to determine the outcome. I’ve seen mainly from left leaning people that regardless of Elon being a good or bad guy this is a bombshell. I’ve seen from right leaning people that this is just a tactic to get Trump to release the list to clear his name. In reality they’re probably both on the list. And if not they probably both have many friends on the list and wouldn’t want to actually release the names The only reason Musk was popular with MAGA was Trump. Now that he turns on Trump he loses all of that. Both sides of the political spectrum as well as the moderates now hate his guts or at least distrust him. MAGA will just find out that Elon is an insecure manchild like weve been telling them and then totally forget all about him or his contributions and act like nothing happened. A lack of consequence is the Hallmark of privilege. Privilege is the sign of societal position. A rigid societal hierarchy is the only way to show that you are above/better than someone else on the societal scale. Holding Trump responsible would break the rules of a societal hierarchy to which his followers subscribe. There is seemingly nothing Trump can do that will sway his MAGA fanbase. He could strangle a puppy and they would forgive him. Musk is so insanely wealthy he doesnt give a shit. He could lose $200 billion and STILL be one of the wealthiest people on the planet. If he spent $10 million/day everyday and never made another dime he would not live long enough to spend all his money...not even close. So yeah nothing will change. The clusterfuck continues. Sadly youre probably not wrong. Seeing these two narcissistic manchildren fight is kinda like buying a lottery ticket. It leads to some nice fantasies about everything getting better but the odds of actually winning are so small they might as well be zero. I mean. I could see a strong negative consequences for it by centralizing their powers. We are doomed. Specks of dust staring down evil gods who delight in our suffering. Toys for grand powers who laugh at us as we try to escape and survive. At this point hoping for consequences for Trump is a false hope. He doesnt have the mental capacity to understand what is happening at this point. Just a vapid mass of orange flesh being carted around. Sadly i agree with you. I wish something would come of it but the general public is so desensitized to things that should matter and the people in power can’t be bothered to lift a finger Does he ever have any consequences? Spoiled little snot he is. Was clearly never disciplined or told no as a child hence the manchildishness of his character today. All Elon has to do is order the Twitter algorithm changed to show more antiTrump antiMAGA content. Arguably this is what really got him elected this time around. outside hopefully further business damage to Elxn another flash in the pan that longterm will fascinate the press far less than Bidens cognitive difficulties It’s like toddlers arguing but without parental intervention to stop the argument but one person is the president and the other is the richest man in the world A scandal Trump can survive. However if Elon decides to primary or start a new party just in swing elections against republicans expect fireworks to happen. Maybe its me... but can anyone name one single thing that *would* change *anything*? Day after month after year all these bad things are happening. And what? Nothing has changed. What would have to happen to provoke *anyone* into doing anything to create meaningful change? Counterpoint Elon is on a ton of drugs and Trump is old and not all there. Any additional stress could contribute to any number of stressrelated diseases pushing both of them closer to their breaking point regardless of whether this does anything politically or not. Elon can’t do anything to trump. Trump is president and can totally screw up Elons net worth. Trump has an actual cult. Elon has bots. Since Elon agrees that his money alone won Trump the election then it’ll spell disaster for the Burger Reich when that money dries up. Trump won an election after Grab em by the pussy. You honestly at this point have to hope for consequences in the afterlife Trump will be perfectly fine with most Republicans because it is far too painful for them to admit they were so wildly wrong about him. However young conservatives will mostly side with Elon. They have relatively little loyalty to Trump. What narrow slither of the market would even consider buying a Tesla? Any market value is based on this roboraxi dream. Honestly the only change I think may happen is if and its a huge if Elon has actual dirt on Trump that he uses Trump is betterJesus for his fans Musk might be burned though. So you might get some Schedenfreude with this Not sure. This is a guy that bought Twitter for 50 billion because liberal scientists clowned on him I think the only way Elon could meaningfully hurt Trump would be if he was able to use his money and platform to kill the BBB in the Senate. And I think that is possible…. or at least it was until he went off the rails in his pissing match with Trump. A lot of Republican Senators are uneasy about this bill as are some House members now that they’ve actually started reading it. Had Musk stayed on message and focused on all the things that suck about this bill that average Americans would oppose along with his threats to primary those voting for it he had a chance of killing it. But instead he gets sucked into a petty pissing match turning the attention away from the bill and towards who helped who with the election basically saying Hey this is not what I paid for!”… not a good look and Trump’s sleazy sexual conduct which is nothing revelatory. If he can get on message and start pointing out the really fucked up stuff in this bill he could possibly tip the balance against it. But with Musk’s track record on self control… I’m kinda doubtful. I couldve sworn the fallout between Trump and Musk is staged to save Musks stock and make it look like he is against Trump again. Only to appease the people who buy the EVs. The consequences will be seen in Trump’s finances Elon’s been pumping all his shit. I mean this is embarrassing but I dont think anythings come out thats a major scandal. [removed] Doge was largely a failure. Elon was in DOGE and they razed and kneecapped the working class and vulnerable then when it came to moving up the chain the swamp essentially gave him a black eye and threw him out. He lost a ton of money and now everyone hates him. Donald Trump has had a bullet graze his ear he has been persecuted in more scandals than probably anyone around. If there was anything in the Epstein files the Democrats would have released it because they actively look for dirt on Trump. People can laugh at the rift or fight but the main problem is still there the congress siphoning tax payer dollars and even a billionaire who endeavors to stop it is going to lose a lot of money get a black eye have actors blow up your cars or risk death basically the swamp is a powerful monster and I think they are too smart and powerful for citizens to stop. Elon is just jaded if he really thought that about Trump being an Epstein guy he would not of let his kid near him. Musk is pulling his Space X contracts from the govt. Thats got real world impact. There will be no consequences to Donald Trump. Period. Shaken my belief in karma. I hear Bernie criticizing Biden will cause grave consequences for Biden. Dont care Im just here to watch the circus. Greetings from the EU. If Trump had been on the Epstein list Biden would’ve released it. [removed] Musk and Trump have more on each other than weve heard about. Dont even worry about it this one goes beyond internet points. I thought that’s what were calling his botched penis surgery As Ive mentioned to many people the last few months most of Trumps voters dont know who Elon Musk is or barely know. And they dont think he has had anything to do with Trumps decisions. They believe hes just some rich guy Trump got something from and who is riding on Trumps coat tails like every other Republican. The only difference is that Musk was a big weapon for Trump. GOP stayed in line because if they didnt Trump would primary them with Musks money. If that is no longer a threat... then all bets are off. If Trump actually killed Tesla/SpaceX. It would basically immediately cede superpower status to China. It would be potentially more disastrous than some of his tariff plans though not the most extreme one which was set to collapse the US entirely. So if Trump tries that. Then the GOP might actually stand against him with Musks support. The big bill might pass it might get sent back. If it is sent back it will have happened because Musk no longer protecting Trump. Elon is gone. DOGE is not. The damage continues. [removed] It was an attempt to draw attention to the bill. Theres no consequences for him ever. Period. To be fair and assuming you are referring to he Epstein files comment I have real doubts about Elons claim. Only because if that information existed why would Biden who otherwise threw the full weight of the US Justice Department and various smaller State authorities at Trump not release that information himself? Trump was a NYC elite who ran in many of the same circles as Epstein so I dont doubt his name appears in various Epstein records. But I seriously doubt the information is as damaging as Elon wants you to believe. Dont forget the Jan 6th was a day of love. I’ve been waiting for ELONGATE for so long Since Elon controls Twitter algorithms and already has a history of using Grok to push a political agenda I wouldnt underestimate the damage he can do to Trumps agenda and the general perception of it. Weve seen Twitter being a left wing propaganda arm trump propaganda arm and it was extremely effective politically in both cases so its not hard to imagine it turning into an antiTrumps agenda propaganda arm and being extremely effective at it. This one is different. Elon and Vance are conspiring to overthrow Trump. They will get Trump out and then Vance and Musk will dominate. while i dont mind the jabs at the 1st bud bromance democrat ineffectiveness is the biggest reason trump is in office w untrustworthy media a close 2nd. politics can only be improved by removal of bcs such standards are by definition unjust and unequal. Thats not opinion thats math. I agree 100% Probably not So to reiterate Trumps base has widely diverse views factually disproving a leftist narrative yet again Wealthiest man alive cant buy the president factually proving he cant be bought Musk clearly was not some alleged shadow president And those are all bad things according to you Most major label artists don’t write their songs and the songwriting credits they do have are more of a participation trophy then an earned achievement. There are some exceptions here and there. Bruno Mars Lady Gaga Mariah Carey Justin Timberlake Ed Sheeran Kendrick Drake All of these people work with collaborators but they’re songwriters too in their own right. People who can craft a hook create chorus or belt a melody to float on top of a beat made by someone else. This is hard to prove because songwriting” varies so wildly from genre to genre and the stakes for pop stars that want to be seen as real artists make it a tightly guarded secret. But for artists like Gracie Abrams Rihanna The Weeknd Britney Beyoncé Sabrina Carpenter etc. they aren’t in the studio making demo tracks and then inviting collaborators to build more on top of it. *They’re the ones getting mailed demo tracks*. I would put money on the bet that there ain’t a single demo made by Beyoncé in her bedroom working out the chords to bootylicious. But they all want to be songwriters and they have the upper hand in a lot of these songwriterperformer relationships if your name isn’t Max Martin. So they can leverage their clout to get newer songwriters to surrender valuable writing credits to them just because they changed a word. This isn’t to diss those artists. All of them with the exception of Abrams are great performers and *that’s* hard to do as well. Not all songwriters are great performers. Rod Temperton for example. Great songwriter but not a lot of stage presence and a fairly weak voice. But give a great song he made to a great performer like Michael Jackson? Then you’ve got gold. You are mixing up lyric writing songwriting and production and conflating them all. For most of pop music history there have been popular stars who lyricists arrangers composer and musical directors working for them. Nothing about that has really changed. All that happened was that in the 1960s especially it became far more common for bands to write their own music and singersongwriters” became a whole thing. So now that exists as another lane an artist can be in. Hiphop has had rappers who write their own verses alongside producers who make beats usually before the verses are written since at least the 1980s. Absolutely nothing new here. And if you think that Kendrick doesn’t write his own verses you’re nuts. [deleted] You know who Beyoncé’s record label is? Parkwood Entertainment Know who founded and owns Parkwood Entertainment? Beyoncé Beyoncé essentially is the producer performer and director for all of her songs. All the people who are writing the music and lyrics playing and editing the music they are all doing so *under her direction to her specifications*. Some plain dont write their own songs at all but there are some who are not necessarily incapable of writing their own songs but they call in Max Martin or Ryan Tedder or whoever to polish it up and make sure they have a mega hit. [removed] Youve just named 7 majorlabel artists who according to you do write their own material and only 6 who dont. How is that most? The choices you put on each list are also just weird in general like I dont even know where to begin here * Its an open secret in the industry that Drake uses ghostwriters. * The Weeknd got his start in the industry as a songwriter including as a songwriter for Drake. Many pop artists start out this way. * Gracie Abrams was posting songs on the Internet way before she signed to a major label. Yes the reason those songs got attention instead of others was because she is a nepo baby but that doesnt mean she didnt write them. Many pop artists start out this way as well especially after MySpace/YouTube/TikTok. * Sabrina Carpenter usually works with the same songwriters Amy Allen and Julia Michaels and their songwriting sessions are basically just shooting the shit together in the studio thinking up lyrics. Once again very common. Allen does a lot of interviews about exactly how the studio sessions went they arent secret . * The person working out the chords to Bootylicious was Stevie Nicks because the whole song is a sample of Edge of Seventeen. Ironically this is an example where the credits might actually be a bit sus he is somewhat volatile and litigious so he may not be the most credible source but the way you described it doesnt really sound like you understand how the songwriting process works. Im asking this because I do not know. How many of the artist you listed used songwriters before they became successful? If they put in the work to gain the initial popularity then get offered songs by songwriters I sort of understand. Good ideas are hard to come up with and being helped along while still doing some of the writing all of the recording and PR and touring seems OK. Not sure if trolling but I thought Drake is know for having ghost writers There are some exceptions here and there. Bruno Mars Lady Gaga Mariah Carey Justin Timberlake Ed Sheeran Kendrick Drake But for artists like Gracie Abrams Rihanna The Weeknd Britney Beyoncé Sabrina Carpenter etc What are you basing these lists on? Have you gone behind the scenes to know how much each of these artists are contributing to what? You haven’t really articulated any reason why you believe this to be true. You’ve stated your point and have provided effectively zero evidence to back it up. Do you have evidence as to how Beyoncé involves her writers and how involved she is personally in her songs? Are you saying you don’t believe Beyoncé has ever written a hit song herself? Sabrina was a really bad example given that she does primarily write a bunch of her own lyrics and helps produce her own songs. The Weeknd also does a lot of his own lyrics if I remember correctly. I feel like you’re kind of just assuming a lot of these people use ghost writers and you’re also conflating a bunch of different things that go into song making as writing the song” it seems like. Have you picked these artists by random? Youve just named artists who have an obvious authorial hand in their own work Gracie Abrams obviously writes her own lyrics so does Sabrina Carpenter so does The Weeknd. They dont sound for a second like theyre singing someone elses words. Whats your evidence that Justin Timberlake or Lady Gaga have more creative involvement than Beyonce? The Weekend literally had a whole personally written and very emotional album stolen” by Drake he was pressured to give” Drake his songs. He started out as a lyricist and writes the majority of his words not to mention he generates a lot of his own vocal melodies over tracks. Unless you’re a producer it’s not strange to not create your own tracks or beats. It seems like you fundamentally misunderstand how the music industry works. I was a studio engineer for years and worked for several of the songwriters that write hit songs as well as many of the artists. Chances are if they’re on a top 100 station they didn’t write the song Ray Charles built a career covering other people’s songs. Still a world class performer. Aretha Franklin’s RESPECT was an Otis Redding cover. She was still an incredible singer. Music is a complex endeavor and a complex business. I also think people misunderstand musical greatness. Dolly Parton cultivated an ethos of dumb blonde” but she famously pointed out she knows she is neither dumb nor blonde. How the sausage gets made is less interesting to me than the final product. Greatness is greatness. As a xenial / elder millennial I will tell you I miss MTV Unplugged. I loved watching performers present stripped versions of their songs and I hope somebody does something like that in the future. Closest now is NPR Tiny Desk concerts. Bob Dylan wrote his songs. Also Taylor Swift This is the biggest black pill. It was very eye opening to me hearing Benny Blanco talk about how him and his boys were responsible for most of the popular pop songs in the 2010s. Pure manufactured goyslop chemically structured to get midwit teenage girls to spend their parents money. Should be illegal. How do you have access to the studio? You can do both. Nearly all if not all of the artists you have listed have written their own music and recorded music written by others. No. Noone will change your mind because this has been true for 30 years at least This is why metal is superior music lol. Real musicians playing real instruments and writing almost all of the music and lyrics. my presumption is the better looking they are the less songwriting they contribute. A balkanized Middle East would be more peaceful and stable Almost all modern Middle Eastern states are just artificial creations of European colonial powers with borders that ignore ethnic tribal and religious differences. The result? States like Iraq Syria Yemen and Lebanon are patchworks of religious tribal and ethnic groups that distrust and hate each other leading to instability in those countries due to religious tribal and ethnic differences. If you have been following the news in Syria since the fall of Assad then you would know that religious minorities have been massacred and ethnic cleansed by the Sunni Arab majority on daily basis if these religious minorities like Alawites and Druze had their own states then this would never have happened in the first place. They would be living peacefully without fear of being killed by their fellow countrymen just like Jews in Israel reminder that most Israeli Jews are Mizrahis who left Middle East because of persecution. Look at Balkans 30 years later after the Balkanization most of those countries are more way stable now than they were under Yugoslavia. Why wouldnt it be the same to the Middle East? Especially since the wars in the Middle East are way deadlier than the wars in the Balkans before Balkanization All countries are artificial creations. And I wouldnt say in Israel people live without fear quite the opposite there’s constant existential fear that leads most Israelis to be overly aggressive in their opinions regarding Israel’s enemies. I think your theory that balkanization leads to peace is just fundamentally wrong. Balkanization was rather a symptom of conflict its not like the Balkan peoples fought each other and then decided to break up Yugoslavia and make peace rather what happened is they first decided to break up Yugoslavia and *that* precipitated conflict as they fought over the demarcation of territory. Moreover its the years of peace and relative economic prosperity that followed the conflict which have lead to stability and lasting peace not necessarily the fact that they separated. Ethnic diversity does not in and of itself lead to conflict even in the middle east. Iran for example has like 10 different major ethnic groups and a bunch of languages the reason you dont here about constant Ethnic strife in Iran is because it has a relatively stable government and generally functioning economy. People dont spontaneously decide they need to kill their neighbors for being different if they have better shit to do and the government hasnt collapsed. Similarly everybody forgets that Oman had rebellions in the 1950s when Ibadi purists tried to overthrow the government and a civil war from 1964 to 1976 when the southern half of the country which is ethnically and religiously distinct tried to break away but such a thing seems completely unimaginable today because of stable governance and economic prosperity. The result? States like Iraq Syria Yemen and Lebanon are patchworks of religious tribal and ethnic groups that distrust and hate each other leading to instability in those countries due to religious tribal and ethnic differences. Youre confusing partition of africa with these nations. Iraq Syria Yemen and Lebanon all have distinct historical borders customs cultures and history. Most of the time people larp them up as Arab because they speak Arabic but that does not mean they are all arabs. That would work great if there weren’t parallel land claims. Unfortunately there are. And a much better solution was already enacted in the north of Syria with the autonomous democratic self administration. Kurds Arabs Armenians Assyrians Yezidis and Turkmen meaningfully organized in solidarity in the democratic confederal system. They instituted schools in Kurdish in Syriac and in Arabic. They protected one another’s creation of cultural institutions and formed worker’s owned cooperatives. It wasn’t perfect but it was an example of what could be. The problem in maintaining that system is that we live in a world with hegemonic powers USA china Russia and subhegemonic powers think Iran Israel Turkey etc. Balkanisation is a perojative and it describes what happened in the Balkans post ottoman empire collapse. Its generally considered a negative to have multiple small hostile nations all fighting and hating each other. Your whole argument is predicated on the idea that countries in the middle east wouldnt go to war with each other over ethnic conflict which is ...well wrong lol. First of all Alawites are far too small of a population to actually really have their own state you could only limit them to a state in the costal region and even that would just get invaded or annexed by whatever country is near them. Alawites and Christians while none of this is justified were among Assads biggest supporters mainly by virtue of being minorities in a secular country. It isn’t purely religion that drive the massacres Also the Arab states especially during the Cold War don’t WANT Balkanization. You say that European states are to blame for countries having borders that ignore religious differences but even during WW1 Arab tribes seemed to unify and create a gigantic Arabian state. This continued long into the Cold War with many attempts at unification by Arab states. There’s no actual way for you to know if a Balkanized Middle East would be more peaceful or not ethnic or sectarian lines are not the main driver of conflict in the region. Why do you assume that these states would be left alone by the Sunni Arab majority? Your solution to the Europeimposed contemporary political structure of the Middle East is to impose another political structure inspired by European geopolitics? Look at Balkans 30 years later after the Balkanization most of those countries are more way stable now than they were under Yugoslavia. Can you back this up? By what metric? The borders are artificial but the countries are not maybe with the exception of Jordan Kuwait and Palestine/Israel Iraq and Syria for example are regions where people share a common language culture religion not sect traditions and dialects along with some parts of Kurdistan. The British added Kurdish regions into these states to divide &amp conquer add smth like an extra layer of protection against Turkey and created countries like Kuwait and Jordan to extend their influence. They even gave the mostly Arab Mesopotamian region of Ahwaz to Iran to keep Pahlavi from abolishing the monarchy and to keep him from not copying Ataturk. People may not share a sect or a religion but mostly a sect but the solution isn’t to create duplicate nations to satisfy each sect or to lump together completely different cultures just because they follow the same one. The answer is civil nationalism and fighting sectarianism not dissolving countries. Otherwise how would we solve tribal divisions? Should each tribe get its own country? Or a fiefdom like under the Ottomans? Creating states solely based on sect or religion is absurd even Iran and Saudi Arabia don’t do that. Also if you Balkanized the region someday a Nationalist or an Arabist leader will rise up and wreck havoc across the region trying to invade all these small states. As for Mizrahi Jews much of the persecution they faced came after the creation of Israel. In fact Mossad helped and in some cases forced Jews to immigrate to Israel. In 1950–1951 for example Mossad bombed Jewishowned property in Baghdad to encourage emigration as reported by many Jewish and Israeli historians like Avi Shlaim and Naeim Giladi. Before that Jews were an integral part of Iraqi society. In 1947 despite making up only about 150000 of a 6 million population Iraqi Jews held 6 out of 138 seats in parliament and 2 out of 30 in the senate. They were awarded the countrys highest honor the Order of the Two Rivers as civil servants like Judge David Samra. The national radio agency was run by a Jew Iraq didn’t have national TV until 1956 and the country’s most famous singer at the time Salima Pasha was also Jewish. That doesnt cancel out the Farhud but that was the result of chaos and the escape of the military Junta which left the city at the hands of government allied fascist militias who got stopped and exterminated by the national army and the British. A quick survey of the history of the Middle East seems to imply almost the opposite conclusion to what youve suggested. Large parts of the Middle East have been unified into large political entities for fairly long periods on numerous occasions. These have tended to coincide with relative peace and prosperity. There have also been numerous periods of fragmentation. These have tended to be unstable and disruptive periods. Id go something far as to say that the number of countrylike entities in the region has been a pretty good proxy for dysfunction. Multiethnic multiconfessional states are almost an inevitability in the Middle East. Its extremely optimistic to think that you can slice the region that would create relatively natural ethnostates and relatively little animosity or disruption. If you meticuluously trace lines around villages map out historic grazing and migration rights and split towns to create reasonable ethnic or religious homogeny you arent going to end up with remotely viable countries. Theyll lack any geographical and economic logic. Even if you could produce viable countries Im not convinced it solves the real problem. There have been plenty of longlived relatively peaceful diverse states in Middle Eastern history. The factor that actually determines whether an area is stable is state power. Libya had very few politically potent ethnic and religious divisions but it still collapsed into chaos because the government was too weak to suppress armed tribes and regional warlords. Smaller less well resources nations are less well equipped to deal with the problems of small violent groups. you forget the wars in the last 30 years in the Balkans Lebanon itself is a a result and other states in levant of balkanization. I don’t think the strife in Yemen despite all the issues in the country is that Yemeni people can’t live with each other. As for Syria I would say same as Lebanon but I personally think the problems of Syria and Lebanon are largely affected by the existence of the Zionist state. Iraq you might not believe it but it was one of the first Arab countries to achieve national independence for reason is that Iraqis were initially united by the Iraqi revolt of 1920. And who should do the balkanizing according to you? Furthermore do you apply the same logic to for example the US? Should the US be balkanized to make it more peaceful to prevent for example another war in the middle east started by the US? Jews left the Levant because their God expelled them four times. History books are fun you should read them. The concept of Free speech like in the case with the USA is bad and quite harmful To add context I was on instagram where a lawyer couple were reacting to a statement by a London Police Chief who said we will extradite people from the USA who made comments online that break UK law and punish them. They said that it was straight up impossible as both countries need to agree that what they did was criminal On big stuff like murder/terrorism it is easier to do that. On online comments free speech laws come to effect and since the US law is quite lax and UK is stricter countries cant come to an agreement and what the chief said was never gonna happen. The point I was talking about came when they were giving an example US laws allow the people to unlimited free speech until they incite violence or lawless action Yes there are other cases too such as national security obscenity defamation etc but incite lawless action is the major one most cases are based on. Fake Currency Fraud are not protected but false information and etc is all protected. UK laws are more strict and dont allow stuff like hate speech. So In the USA a person could tweet X minority in the UK is bad and it would be good if they were removed In the UK it could fall under hate speech and could land you in punishment. In the US lawyers can argue and say they were expressing opinions and not really inciting violence so technically they can be protected. So in two places courts wont agree that a crime was done and the guy who posts that wont be extradited at all. Now heres my opinion I am trying to defend The bar of freedom of speech being that low is very bad. Not only is that waiting till the last moment like incitement of violence only comes up after a slippery slope from hate speech. Cutting the bud off at hate speech is quite effective at maintaining social harmony. We shouldnt wait until a crime/ act of violence has happened before we jump to stop it we should stop it as soon as we see it. Another thing is that by only punishing stuff based on incitement of violence it allows space for other effects that dont necessarily incite violence such as spreading misinformation the spread of misinformation is how hate speech is born. I can purposely say false data and claim insane stuff and start a following that believes in it I am protected under US law as long as I dont call for violence in a clear way that is in no way defensible in a court. This is apparently why big neonazi parades are also protected as long as they dont necessarily incite violence they are fine. Spreading stuff thats totally wrong is insanely dangerous look at all the antivaxxers who killed many children because they spread false things they are protected in the US. Protection of all these stuff is not protection of common man to speak it is about letting breeding grounds for bad people and ideas to grow. We should try our best to remove them. Sure we wont be perfect at removing them but we will clean up society much better. I agree with all your points about why free speech can be bad. But no where in your post do you explain why government regulation of speech would be *better*. Antivaxxer disinformation for example is obviously bad. But its not obvious that having the government regulate and criminalize that type of speech would be a better alternative. Id actually argue its much much worse than allowing free speech. Criminalizing certain speech would just embolden those communities. Theres also a strong slippery slope argument. We have a horrific history of the government lying to people. For example up until the 70s there was an experiment where black men with syphilis were studied and told there was no treatment for syphilis leading to dozens of them dying preventable deaths since there was treatment for syphilis. Called the Tuskegee Syphilis experiment if you want to do more research. The same government that allowed this and which never gave any consequences to the researchers that murdered dozens of black men is the government you expect to regulate speech on medical issues? Do you see the issue? We just cant trust the government to do that. Hate speech gets into slippery slope issues too. Look at the current administration. They are already illegally deporting people for supporting Palestine. Imagine if they could LEGALLY do that and declare that any support of Palestine is hate speech. Do you see the issue? TLDR Antivaxxers and hate speech are bad but the government criminalizing them is even worse. The cure is worse than the disease. I disagree strongly with your stance that freedom of speech is bad. I think youre trying to be protective of marginalized groups which is certainly a good thing but in pursuit of that sentiment I think youre ignoring that if you limit free speech you empower the government to more harshly determine what speech they want to allow. Lets use an easy example here if I were to say I hate that the Chinese have set up Uyghur internment camps and I believe theis is an evil thing theyve allowed with an expanded authority to punish hate speech the government could very easily classify that as a hateful statement against a minority despite it being a valid criticism of the Chinese people and government. The same would extend to basically any discussion of the ongoing Israeli/Palestinian conflict. Harsh events can lead to harsh criticism. It is definitely a good idea to discourage hate speech but we/the US have decided that its better for society to discourage it than the government. If I say something hateful online I can still be fired for it people can end their relationships with me people can choose to shun me. All of these are reasonable and acceptable punishments for hateful speech weve just decided that we dont want to empower the government to punish speech because its so easy to use that power to overreach. The problem is who or what governing body gets do decide what goes over the line if the bar for free speech gets raised any higher then the people in power will just label any speech against them or their politically aligned demographics as hate speech we are really close to this right now in the US I mean they actually tried to label staunch criticism and fixation on the current president as an actual mental illness. Now imagine if free speech laws were just a *little* more strict and they decided that criticism was a prosecutable offence. That sounds much worse and more harmful to me than the alternative of letting some people voice hateful or ignorant opinions without immediate legal recourse. Who do you believe should be allowed to determine what nonviolent speech is allowed or not? Who comes up with that list of things and how would you make sure it cant be used to just censor people I dont like? There are plenty of official government stances on things that turn out later to be false even when people were just trying their best let alone motivated to restrict the speech of people they disagree with. The primary purpose of the principal of free speech is that its necessary to know what people around you believe. If theyre not free to say what they think their ideas dont disappear they just disappear from view. The dangerous ideas are still propagated and discussed theyre still held but theyre almost never rebutted because no one says them in front of people who disagree with them. So they spread they fester they calcify until one day enough people believe them that the laws dont matter. And the people who disagree are blindsided both by the number of their opponents and their inability to rebut ideas they havent had to seriously engage with in some time. Germany is in the process of banning its most popular political party because something something Nazis in essence a derivation of hate speech apparently not realizing *thats exactly what they did to the Nazis multiple times and it didnt work.* If anything being banned helped embolden and radicalize the people they were trying to exclude from government. Cutting the bud off at hate speech is quite effective at maintaining social harmony. Looking at Europe over the past decade that is in no way evident. Germany is banning its most popular political party or might well see multiple countries are enacting de facto blasphemy bans to avoid offending Muslims and Britain is arresting people for social media comments more expeditiously than we arrested suspected Communists during the Red Scare. If these bans were effective they wouldnt need to expand. Theyd cut the bud off. *Theyre not.* the spread of misinformation is how hate speech is born. Uh...setting aside that hate speech effectively means the speech the government has banned and nothing more hate speech can also be an expression of all sorts of grievances that have nothing to do with misinformation. Again if people in your country think these things *you really need to know.* Otherwise the aggrieved are going to snowball until one day theyre the largest political party and the action ultimately taken to address those grievances is far more drastic than it might have been had you just listened and addressed the concern earlier. I can purposely say false data and claim insane stuff and start a following that believes in it I am protected under US law That is also possible in Europe. The only difference is that many European countries will pick and choose officially wrong things that cant be expressed and they will eventually be wrong about that in at least some cases meaning there will be official falsehoods that are true while the not officially false but still false things remain untouched. Protection of all these stuff is not protection of common man to speak That is exactly what it is. We should try our best to remove them. No you should address them. If you lose an argument to a bad idea either get better ideas for yourself or accept that it might not be as bad an idea as you think or at the very least accept that a lot of people find the idea very easy to believe. Worth knowing. Free speech isn’t a right in America to talk about the weather. It’s the right of people to freely express their opinions specifically on government tyranny among other controversial opinions. A lot of what you said isn’t actually a result of free speech. And it’s pretty clear that there are some exceptions. If you make a specific threat you can be prosecuted. There’s a difference between hate speech and speech you hate. Being mean and making memes isn’t hate speech. And even so quite frankly people should be allowed to not like other people. And it doesn’t change opinions of those people. It just makes them more skeptical of those in charge. And honestly forcing people that hate a certain group to mingle and interact with the group they hate leads to more violence than just leaving them alone and letting the group they hate not interact with them. Eh disagree Hate speech” is just too vague and Can and will be eroded by the powers that be Freedom of speech is very tricky but at the end of the day I’d rather people be able to say too much rather than not enough. Giving the government the power to silence the people is just so dangerous. Imagine if the current US government could arrest you for hate speech” and could define what this hate speech” is As others have pointed out it is tricky to ban opinions and a slippery slope. However I feel like even if it wasn’t it isn’t such a good idea to ban opinions. These opinions don’t disappear when you ban free speech they go underground where they radicalise even further. By allowing everyone to express their opinions you keep the dialogue alive and you can actively factcheck and try to convince them. I get that you give them an audience and that that is not always ideal there are trade offs but in the end they will always find each other anyway if they really want. It is better to know what lives in the minds of the people then you can actually do something about it. Making speech less free gives governments more tools to ban speech and punish people who say things they dislike. This can and will be abused e.g. you can see the Trump administration trying to do this with visa applicants foreign students etc.. All it takes is a shitty politician and a few complicit judges and suddenly criticizing the government is hate speech that’s illegal. Who gets to decide what is hate speech? thats the problem so free speech is everything. Hope that helps. Would you support free speech being curtailed and hate speech codes implemented by the Trump administration? Could you see any problems that might arise from that? Free speech is a means of conflict resolution that doesnt rely on violence. It allows us to speak and change one anothers minds without taking up weapons. When you say that you do not want free speech on something you are saying that you would prefer violent resolution to the conflict. At times this can make sense direct threats for instance may well require a violent response other times not so much. Imagine yourself enforcing these laws for a moment. A friend says that they dont fully trust the new vaccines big pharma is profit driven the government regulations were recently weakened it doesnt seem like the new vaccines is as safe as the media says it is they say. This is dangerous misinformation. Do you A Try to prove that the new vaccines are safe and effective. B Threaten to take their money fines if they dont shut up and if they continue then lock them away in a cell if they resist violently forcing them into submission. Not only is A more effective at changing your friends mind even if it wont always work. B seems an excessive and unjustified use of force no? You must understand laws arent just a way to label bad things and make them go away. Laws are how we agree to use the absolute violence of the state against one another. If you wouldnt personally use violence to force someone into submission you shouldnt be advocating for armed police to do the same. \ We shouldnt wait until a crime/ act of violence has happened before we jump to stop it we should stop it as soon as we see it. Speech isnt an act of violence. Not only is that waiting till the last moment like incitement of violence only comes up after a slippery slope from hate speech. Cutting the bud off at hate speech is quite effective at maintaining social harmony. the issue is who is cutting the bud? Imagine the current POTUS has that power. your worried about slippery slopes? I definitely wouldnt want Trump deciding what the media is and isnt allowed to say not even if he had to conform to guidelines written by congress. If we banned only speech that ought to be banned great. But if we could agree on what that is we wouldnt need to ban it in the first place. X minority in the UK is bad and it would be good if they were removed I could say immigrants or immigrants from countries without public schools or immigrants from countries with a certain crime rate. Ill find something unique about the country where the immigrants are coming from and then say that. Or instead of an ethnic minority maybe we are talking about scientologies. There are a lot of statements structured like the one you mentioned which are complete reasonable to many immigrants over too short a period of time is a problem. The restriction of speaking freely gives far too much power to the government to decide what can be said and what can’t. In a perfect world the government would be made entirely of people who are good and care about the people and their knowledge directly. But they’re just not. In Nazi Germany the restriction of knowledge flow was a huge reason why so many people died. That’s definitely not an exact example of what applying your thinking would cause but an example of what could go terribly wrong in that sense. Furthermore censorship can never be done on an individual basis when a law is enacted so unintended media could be caught in the legislative crossfire. For example if you ban all hate speech you could be banning everything from Harry Potter for racist undertones to South Park for violent jokes. I completely agree violence should be prevented as much as possible but the incitement of violence on social media does not cause very many actual incidents overall compared to other problems America faces. It is too hard to ban something so far into the gray area if that makes sense. who determines what is hate speech? Spreading stuff thats totally wrong is insanely dangerous look at all the antivaxxers who killed many children because they spread false things they are protected in the US. What other kinds of dangerous wrong stuff shouldnt be allowed? Marxism? Atheism? Environmental predictions? Having a nationalized authority decide what truth is can only work if you can trust their judgement of truth about everything forever. Id rather live in a country where we have to handle antivaxxer misinformation than in a country where its possible that you know hypothetically... an antivaxxer is appointed to be Secretary of Health and we could end up legally not being allowed to acknowledge the benefits of vaccines... The main issue is who decides what is bad or hurtful. The current US administration is using discrimination laws to try and force the end to DEI initiatives and is actively antivax. [removed] Humans are not supposed to eat other mammals Meat from birds fish reptiles and insects tends to be far healthier than meat from mammals. Pork and Beef cause cancer heart disease digestion problems obesity strokes highblood pressure and possibly dementia. None of these health issues are linked to eating nonmammal meat. Many religions cultures and individuals have particular issues around eating certain or all mammals while still eating other meat. Hindus Muslims Jews Rastafarians Pescatarians. In western culture all the animals we are against eating are mammals dogs cats horses. Lastly mammals are more closely related to humans so while I’m not saying it’s ’cannibalism’ to eat mammals it’s definitely **MORE** like cannibalism than eating fish/birds/reptiles/insects just genetically speaking if nothing else. These animals have similar anatomical structures and their brains while not as capable as a humans most likely work in a fairly similar way making our treatment of them even more disturbing. Fish and sea life has often high heavy metal concentration making them unsafe in large quantities. Birds have bird flu. Plants have all kind of toxic pesticides. Every food has their own risks. Cephalopods have proven to be outstandingly intelligent even in comparison to mammals over and over and over again. The same applies to corvids and parrots. And chickens possess communication skills on par with those of some primates they make decisions based on prior experience and knowledge surrounding the situation they can solve complex problems and they empathize with individuals that are in danger. So no our mistreatment of mammals is by no objective standard more disturbing than our mistreatment of other animals. Additionally reptiles and amphibians carry a wide variety of zoonotic diseases that are very dangerous to human health which is exactly why it is much less common for us to consume their meat if we have access to other prey. The overconsumption of poultry and certain sea animals is also linked to various health risks. Because in reality humans are omnivores that evolved to be able to safely consume all types of food. And the real issue that is negatively affecting our health is likely not the fact that we consume animal products at all no matter the product but a the insanely excessive consumption of animal products that most Western societies promote and b the fact that almost all the animal products modern Western humans consume are highly processed. Which I say as an ethical vegan so in no way do I have any interest in encouraging the consumptions of any animal at all but when we talk about health alone and not ethics honesty is also important. Particularly since human health is an insanely complex topic. Islam and Judaism also not only ban the consumption of certain mammals they also ban the consumption of certain sea animals certain birds and certain reptiles while Hinduism only bans the consumption of cows and Rastafarianism promotes ethical vegetarianism. And ethical pescatarianism is based on the highly scientifically outdated believe that sea animals lack intelligence and pain perception. What is supposed? Sure red meat isnt healthy but we eat a lot of unhealthy stuff. Is your whole point that its unhealthy or what do you mean by supposed Cannibalism isnt a spectrum. Its either human flesh or it isnt. The health problems you mention are attendant on eating too much pork beef etc. There are also health problems attendant on consuming too much of pretty much anything including water. Im also guessing though I dont have hard data that there arent a lot of studies done on whether health issues develop from eating too much poultry lizards or any number of other things. So we dont know. The generally healthiest thing to do is eat a lot of variety. In the West most of the animals measured by number of species number of individuals or biomass we are against eating are in fact bugs. Animals arent supposed to eat anything. They eat whatever and just end up not dying when eating things they can assimilate. Humans are animals and work the exact same way. We even turn plants that actively try to deter mamals from eating them into delicacies chili peper for example whatever gets you energy is fair game in this world. Pork and Beef cause cancer heart disease digestion problems obesity strokes highblood pressure and possibly dementia. None of these health issues are linked to eating nonmammal meat. Citation needed Many religions cultures and individuals have particular issues around eating certain or all mammals Many religions also claim women who are on their period are unclean. Your point being? Supposed to according to whom? Almost all ancient archaeological sites have found gnawed bones of mammals. Weve been eating them since the beginning whenever we could. All the animals we are against eating in the West are mammals? We dont eat some mammals because they have more value than as a food source. And while youre at it please pass the snakes cockroaches and worms. I take issue especially with your second paragraph as you made a whole lot of causal claims about beef and pork that you can’t reliably support. What? Who decides what humans are supposed to do? Humans are omnivores. Ethically veganism is the most defensible position in terms of reducing suffering and I guess approximating whats most natural. For the record Im a vegetarian. Pork and Beef cause cancer heart disease digestion problems obesity strokes highblood pressure and possibly dementia. None of these health issues are linked to eating nonmammal meat This just doesnt align with the science. Some of these things are linked to cooking or other factors like how the animal is raised the carcinogens for example are created as a result of cooking and particularly over cooking the meat. On the other hand chicken is also linked to increased cholesterol which relates to your obesity strokes [and] high blood pressure. None of the things you listed are unique to mammal meat. Red meat also contains nutrients that arent found in white meat or fish. The main reason fish and poultry are generally considered healthier is because our diets generally contain everything you can get from red meat already not because its not good for you. Additionally there are plenty of other mammals that are considered quite healthy to eat such as deer or bison so even that limitation is only limited to the most popular red meat. Overall to say that its a clearly defined boundary where mammal meat is bad for you and non mammal meat is healthy is just wrong. There is no such boundary. Health doesnt work that way. Lastly mammals are more closely related to humans so while I’m not saying it’s ’cannibalism’ to eat mammals it’s definitely MORE like cannibalism than eating fish/birds/reptiles/insects just genetically speaking if nothing else. These animals have similar anatomical structures This sounds good on the surface but doesnt mean much. If pigs share 80% of our DNA and bananas share 60% of our DNA does that 20% mean much? If our closest ancestor with some mammal lived 225 million year ago and our closest ancestor with fish was 375 million years ago are we really gonna decide what we can eat based off that? Or are you basing this off some arbitrary human category like mammals? Cause thats also completely arbitrary. In any case were related to some extent to all life. Why is your arbitrary cutoff point of what counts as being too related to us to eat better than the cutoff point determined by society? Because any cutoff point is equally arbitrary. Ancient humans Persistence hunting technique is uniquely suited to bring down large herbivores and the only large herbivores in Africa at that time were mammals Supposed to is proscriptive. Humans shouldnt eat mammals according to whom? For Islam and Judaism the exception proves the rule that humans have always eaten mammals to the point of having specific instructions on how to slaughter animals. And Judaism forbids the eating of most seafood. Hominids were scavengers when it came to meat so they ate it a little but not that much. The negative effects you listed arent associated with eating mammals in and of itself but overconsumption of animal products. I hear you on the rest of it but then you would say humans shouldnt eat a lot of meat from mammals. Uh. Yes we are omnivores. Always have been. And our relatives like Chimps wont say no to fresh meat and its a small monkey well. From a purely biological perspective there is 1 argument anthropocentric oc against eating mammals and especially closely related ones like apes or cannabalism diseases and parasites. Both jump species barriers much more easily when you are related to the original host. Classic example AIDS from monkeys. Influenza from other mammals. Most diseases are of zoonotic origin. Excepting eg smallpox. Most parasites to. Excepting eg human body louse. So we would have less pandemics and so on if we would eat only fish bugs and molluscs. Not saying you cant get parasites that way to from fish. But knowing Curu and prion diseases i would rather eat cooked fish brain than cooked monkey brain. But from an ecological non human biased perspective .. you are a big terrestrial carnivore. Need to sustain high body temps and metabolic rate. What are you gonna eat? Crickets lizards or 1 buffalo? Easy. I mean. Living is unhealthy. Stop living. You may accumulate mutations which will promote cancer later on. Stop breathing. Dont eat plants. Dont drink water. Pork and Beef cause cancer heart disease digestion problems obesity strokes highblood pressure and possibly dementia. None of these health issues are linked to eating nonmammal meat. Citations? Low processed red meat dont cause anything youve listed. Obesity and type 2 diabetes indeed cause those. You know what else is unhealthy? Breathing. Oxygen metabolism results in free radicals which causes cancer. I dont personally eat any animal protein. I spend more on feeding my pet cockroaches in a week than I will ever consider donating to gaza etc. But I will still point out your hypocrisy In embryology all chordates animals including human animals with a spine starting out are indistinguishable. Birds reptiles mammals. Your argument against eating mammals contains a completely arbitrary cutoff. The extinction of megafauna would disagree Homo sapiens are omnivores. We eat whatever we can stuff in our pieholes Sure there is probably some idealized flavorless paste that has a perfect mix of nutrients and calories. No one is stopping you from eating it Me Im with PETA People Eating Tasty Animals Goat pigs and cows provide a larger quantity of meat so our ancestors started eating them also easier to farm them I take issue with the idea that humans are supposed to” do anything but especially that we’re only supposed to or meant to do things that have a direct health benefit and cause no harm to ourselves or arguably similar species. Because that contradicts all of human history and our collective observations of the human condition. As a species we do not have a natural inclination toward pacifism or caution. Like clearly. And the reason we have the knowledge we do now is because of risktaking curiosity collaboration and horror. And if we are talking about net positive health benefits—modern medicine evolved from atrocities committed against marginalized populations. So by your logic we were supposed to” commit those atrocities because it gave us gynecology and vaccines. Evoking a predestined rule for our species that falls far outside of the practices and behaviors that have been established over millennia doesn’t have a basis in reality because there’s no evidence that we were ever meant for or supposed to do anything but what we’ve ended up doing and that foundational belief that there’s a higher purpose for any of this or that we’ve veered off course somehow is completely subjective. There is no natural barrier like pryons when humans consume humans. So what exactly do you mean by supposed to? According to whom? Wolves hunt deer and both are mammels. Are wolf evil? By your logic lions should be eating deer either. Theyre more closely related to deer than plans and birds. First of all what are your sources that birds and fish are healthier? If you dig deep enough youll find a study that just about anything may cause cancer including birds and fish. Obesity heart disease and such are caused by the entire western diet not just beef and pork. Religions have certain restrictions because of their beliefs. You failed to prove that everyone should follow those beliefs. And lastly no. Just no. It isnt cannibalism. Pork and Beef cause cancer heart disease digestion problems obesity strokes highblood pressure and possibly dementia. None of these health issues are linked to eating nonmammal meat. This is true. But moderate consumption of meats is not likely to be harmful. Its okay to have red meats sometimes. Its just not smart to eat them everyday. Many religions cultures and individuals have particular issues around eating certain or all mammals while still eating other meat. Hindus Muslims Jews Rastafarians Pescatarians. In western culture all the animals we are against eating are mammals dogs cats horses. Every religion you mentioned has an issue with eating CERTAIN mammals but not mammals in general. lol pescetarian isnt a religion? That just means a vegetarian that also eats fish. In western culture we are against eating a lot of animals that arent mammals. You cant eat eagles owls or many other birds. Itd also be highly unusual to eat something like an insect or snake even if its not actually illegal. Lastly mammals are more closely related to humans so while I’m not saying it’s ’cannibalism’ to eat mammals it’s definitely **MORE** like cannibalism than eating fish/birds/reptiles/insects just genetically speaking if nothing else. I guess? This doesnt really mean anything though. I could say dating an 20 year old is MORE like pedophilia than dating a 30 year old. But you understand thats kind of dumb right? Humans are supposed to eat anything that wont make us immediately sick if it gets us through to the next day. What it may or may not cause in thirty years time has been immaterial for most of our history. What about the historical evidence going all the way back to cave paintings of humans hunting going so far back the definition of human can be called into question. Furthermore people eat horse meat its banned for health reasons in the US because of medicines given to horses making them not safe to eat. Dogs are commonly eaten in Asia. The taboos against pork are largely from trichinosis which was a far more serious problem before modern medicine and farming practices rendered it a minor issue people who eat wild game are occasionally treated for. As for the sliding scale of cannibalism or whatever isnt that also a sliding scale of meat quality? Beef is usually considered higher quality than fish or poultry. What do you mean by supposed to” here? There is no designer at play. All of those health issues you outlined are due to fat. As such fried chicken is just as unhealthy as beef or pork. Chicken may be naturally leaner but how its prepared is going to matter moreso. As for the paragraph about religion many of those religions also have limitations with regards to birds and fish as well. Birds of prey and swordfish arent kosher for example. As for American culture bugs by far have the biggest taboo. I think Ill stick to steak The SCs ruling in Citizens United was the right one both from the perspective of constitutionality and Liberalism more broadly While restriction of speech established by the Bipartisan Campaign Reform Act was an unconstitutional overreach by the federal government my focus here is more on the broader arguments presented by the Federal government and the court. The arguments made by the government of the extent their power to restrict speech is deeply illiberal from the arguments before the court CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS Again just to follow up even if theres one clause in one sentence in the 600page book that says in light of the history of the labor movement you should be careful about candidates like John Doe who arent committed to it? MR. STEWART Well whether in the context of a 600page book that would be sufficient to make the book either an electioneering communication or express advocacy CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS Well it does by its terms doesnt it? Published within 60 days. It mentions a candidate for office. What other qualification is there? MR. STEWART Well I think the Court has already crossed that bridge in Wisconsin Right to Life by saying the statute could constitutionally be applied only if it were the functional equivalent of express advocacy and so that would be the and we accept that constitutional holding. That would be the relevant constitutional question. One sentence from a book in the lead up to the election would be sufficient to suppress the book. If a nonprofit trying to fight fascism spent money to make and publish a 30 second video explaining the links between Trump and fascist leaders in the lead up to the election and advocating against voting for trump they would be breaking the law. Corporations are at its core groups of citizens who are working together to promote their common interests. I do not believe that a group of individuals by the act of forming a legal group to allow themselves to pool resources and effort should lose their fundamental rights of speech. In fact groups of people uniting together to pool resources and manpower are essential components of Liberal society. When corporations are influencing elections they are doing so by presenting arguments. Either to politicians or individuals. And especially when presenting them to individuals if your arguments are bad people wont be convinced. The democrats outspent republicans in 2024 but their arguments at the end of the day did not convince enough people so they lost. Basically the Court was just wrong here on the facts as has become abundantly clear since the decision. A the decision majorly followed the following reasoning we now conclude that independent expenditures including those made by corporations do not give rise to corruption or the appearance of corruption...The appearance of influence or access furthermore will not cause the electorate to lose faith in our democracy. But observably the electorate _has_ lost faith in our democracy as a result of corruption and appearance of corruption downstream of unlimited corporate money in politics. And especially when presenting them to individuals if your arguments are bad people wont be convinced. On the other hand recorded history. So just to give you a very real example you remember Dr. Andrew Wakefield? Sorry *former* Dr. Andrew Wakefield? He was the guy who put together that lie that the MMR vaccine caused autism back in 1998. So nigh on thirty years ago. When I call it a lie I mean it. Wakefields study has been *thoroughly* discredited. Brian Deer a reporter with the Sunday Times did a bunch of in depth investigations into it as did the General Medical Council. Wakefields claim was that hed discovered a new gut disease a form of colitis caused by the MMR vaccine that caused autism. When his records were reviewed only a few of the children I want to say... three? of the thirteen studied *had any* colitis and none of them had similar symptoms. Two of the children in the study of autistic children *did not have autism* and Wakefield utterly fabricated data regarding several of the children because it was the only way to get the data he needed. And now I say he *needed* it because Wakefield was being paid without disclosure by a lawyer who was suing vaccine manufacturers. That lawyer needed an accepted new syndrome to be able to push the case forward and Wakefield provided. Even more galling he went around telling everyone that what they needed to do was to split the MMR vaccine into different shots then **put in a patent a measles vaccine** shortly before releasing that grown breaking study. Now all of that is to say that Andrew Wakefield is a wanker and a fraud. But somehow in spite of this *my own halfsister* still refused to get her children vaccinated because she believed that vaccines caused autism based on the study from the 90s. No amount of data or effort was able to move her off that. The idea that the best answer to bad speech is more speech or that good speech rises to the top is idiotic. If you and I are having a debate over economic policy and youre lying it doesnt help to have thirty other people in the room screaming at the top of their lungs. One sentence from a book in the lead up to the election would be sufficient to suppress the book. Apologies for the tangents but Im going to go for one more. So there is a rather famous story called Lokis Wager. Essentially Loki is betting with the dwarf Sindri and his brother Brok over something Baldur is up to. He is so sure of his victory that he promises his head if he loses. Predictably he loses but when they go to collect his head he stops them. Ah ah ah he says I have promised you my head but you may not take one inch of my neck. An argument erupts and in the end Loki keeps his head and has his lips stitched shut for being an asshole because no one can agree upon where the head ends and the neck begins. In argumentation theory this is what is known as a continuum fallacy the irrational idea that because a term cant be defined it cannot be discussed. In more common parlance wed call what were talking about in your post a false dilemma. It is *entirely* possible to put reasonable limits on political speech that would allow for one page but prohibit unlimited unaccountable spending by billionares. The idea that we must allow one if we allow the other is like arguing that Lokis neck continues up to the middle of his fucking forehead. If your arguments are bad people won’t be convinced” Oh to live in such a wonderful world. The fact is money keeps people safely ensconced well away from reality in a selfreenforcing bubble that leads them down whatever path those with money wish to take them. If you equate money with speech than only the rich are going to have it and that’s exactly what happened. We put limits on pooling together resources and manpower by outlawing nominally more than in practice alas Monopolies because they distort the very market by their outsized power and equating money with speech is no different and just as damaging as we have seen. Do you think this creates any possibility of corruption whether perceived or actual? Say I am the VP of Legislative Affairs at a large corporation and I choose to spends millions of dollars on helping a candidate get elected. Is it possible that candidate may now enact policies to benefit my corporation even if they dont believe it is in the publics interest? Is it possible that they may play nice with me so that they can continue to get support in their future campaigns? If money = political speech to influence votes why not just cut out the middle man and make money = votes? Sell votes for $100 each. Corporations aka their leaders can buy the most votes as they are the richest and therefore the most entitled to vote. What could possibly go wrong? You know what was interesting that I just found out from The Lever’s podcast John McCain fought hard to prevent something like Citizen’s United from happening. You think you know a guy Corporations are not making amazing arguments. They are throwing money around. And it’s working. I think you have to be careful in assuming that corporations are some kind of a representative of the people and not just a polite caste system. Corporations are often led by a CEO and just a few people at the top. Very hierarchical. In general most corporations are categorized as hierarchical structures. https//www.lucidchart.com/blog/typesoforganizationalstructures You know what is an actual good representation of the people in a way that does not fall into a hierarchy? An election system where you’re allowed to vote as long as you’re of age and a citizen. You don’t need to be a CEO to be invited into the process. It is a huge problem that we frequently see representatives elected by a democratic process to represent their constituents not follow the will of the people or even do the opposite of what they campaigned on because some big corporate lobby paid them off. We need a system where even a poor and isolated man is represented and their needs are met. Not a system that rewards you for pooling or I would argue hoarding the most resources. If you want a system that rewards pooling the most resources I think you’re talking about a monarchy or an oligarchy. Not a democratic republic. ... groups of people uniting together to pool resources ... Arent there individual contributions limits to political campaigns? Why would people comtributing together be allowed to subvert that? Corporations are legal fictions designed to insulate the owners from individual liability. Their origins come from 18th century merchants who wanted to spread the cost of the inevitable shipwrecks. The evolution of their power to buy elections by appeals to their personhood has been a very modern invention. People die corporations dont. They are unlike nonprofits unions or persons They are creations of the state and In exchange for the immunity from liability the owners enjoy they are subject to the rules imposed on them by a democratically elected government. \ suppress the book by suppress you mean limit corporate subsidy. Im not a corporation. If I sought to publish a book in the days before an election it wouldnt matter whether or not it had political content. Because Im not a corporate political action committee. If I was a CEO of a company I could write the same company and publish it with the same timing no problem. the restriction is that the corporation cant pay for the overhead of an organization raising funds to write such a book as advocacy on the corporations behalf. You still might reasonably oppose such a restriction. But comparing that to a typical book is unreasonable. \ One sentence from a book in the lead up to the election would be sufficient to suppress the book This discussion isnt about books sold in bookstores that a company is profiting from. The example the majority opinion gives is someone writing a book for the NRA that the NRA then pays to distribute as a promotional material. This discussion is about books developed and promoted on the companys dime because the company wants to promote the books message. Why shouldnt that be considered campaign material? And subject to the same limitations as any other political advertising? [removed] Almost everybody from rich countries should give their disposable income to charities. I watched by a comedian and he actually had a good point. 9 million people die of starvation every year. 41 million people die of easily curable/preventable diseases each year. 700 million people live in extreme poverty less than $2.15 per day. $100 might not seem like a lot to someone living in the United States or another wealthy country but in places like Liberia Bangladesh or Papua New Guinea that same $100 can go a long way. potentially feeding a family for weeks covering critical medical expenses or providing clean water and sanitation. Given these facts I dont see how anyone can justify blowing their discretionary cash on a new Xbox jewelry or the latest iPhone. These items might bring temporary satisfaction but they don’t compare morally to the immense good that same money could do if donated to a registered charity like those on a local soup kitchen or even directly to homeless beggars. They would benefit far more from your $1000 or even $10 than you would. If we can do something that helps others significantly at a small cost to ourselves we should. Why wouldnt I do the morally righteous action if possible? We don’t need to live like monks but it seems selfish to spend money every month on luxuries when my donation can literally save lives. Im not saying we have to live like a monk. Im not saying we cant enjoy yourselves every now and then. But it makes me think why shouldnt charity and generosity be prioritized more? Can anyone here change my view? Can I instead hoard all of my wealth not give away anything and feel philosophically and logically justified by doing it instead of like a greedy scumbag? This is actually the subject of an extremely famous essay in philosophy. Its called Famine Affluence and Morality and addresses this exact topic. Link The issue in my view is that we dont have a moral duty to help others. We do have a duty to not do any harm and it is morally good to help others but it is not obligatory to help others. Taken to the extreme this argument would require you to work and earn as much as possible and donate any earnings in excess of what you need to survive. Intuitively it doesnt make any sense to say someone is obligated to be working 60 hour weeks and donating almost all their income. Thats certainly a good thing to do but the reverse that its bad not to do that seems obvious. So yes you can hoard all your wealth assuming the wealth is derived according to the law and broad social norms and be justified. I would call that morally neutral. Its not good. Its not bad. If you committed tax fraud or got your wealth in nefarious ways then that would be bad. And if you chose to donate any of your wealth then that would be good. This kind of comes from a place of macroeconomic misunderstanding. GDP is a measure of the velocity of money. How quickly it changes hands in a time frame. In a large successful bustling economy the ideal scenario is that consumption swells generating demand for goods and services. This causes the economy to grow and with it so too does the living standard and wealth of its population. This is a heavily abridged explanation Let’s say hypothetically we all started doing this. And that money is siphoned out of the market and into developing nations. The economy would shrink. Eventually this would erode the citizens of the donor nations capacity to help at all. If no one is using their disposable income to buy goods and services those businesses will start to default and close. The people become poorer and ultimately incapable of donating anything to anybody else. Because they too are now impoverished. And now everybody loses. An equilibrium would be reached but it would result in a race to the bottom not to the top. If you’re following me. These are extreme examples of course. But your thesis is extreme. And that would be its natural conclusion. A major issue with developing nations is corruption. They are infertile grounds for enterprise because of political and social instability threat of seizure by the governing powers. And so on. Throwing money at these problems is only a temporary aid. It doesn’t fix the core issues plaguing them. Stability is the permanent fix and unfortunately no foreign power or foreign populace can safely or ethically provide that without questionable intervention. I can see how this makes sense upon first thought. But it fundamentally undermines the means by which the philosophy itself would operate in practice. Hope this helps. Im not saying we have to live like a monk. Im not saying we cant enjoy yourselves every now and then. You kind of are. Youre arguing that it is a moral failing to spend even $10 on yourself instead of giving it to charity. So to argue your main view you seem to be acting under the assumptions that A all or most people in rich countries are at least comfortably wealthy and B that spending disposable income on oneself isnt an important thing for people to be doing. For A a lot of people are living paycheck to paycheck or in debt or unemployed. True you did say disposable income but if somebodys working 40+ hours a week to get say $20 of disposable income with everything else going to rent food debts insurance etc. do you not think that spending that $20 on something that makes them happy is an important thing for their mental health? I cant imagine how awful it would be to work hard all week and scrape by just enough to live by and then spend none of the extra on myself. Which brings me to B which is a little more complicated. Above just the mental health benefits do you have any idea how much of the economy is based on luxuries of the kind that youre saying people shouldnt be buying? I dont! But Ill bet you that if everybody stopped spending money on themselves and started putting it into charities the economy would be hit *hard.* Really rather than saying everybody in rich countries should give up what little disposable income they can shouldnt we say that people who make more than $1 million per year of personal wealth should have to put the extra into charities? That gets a *lot* more money to the charities without massively impacting the economy. Probably. I am not an economist. I understand what you’re saying and it’s a noble goal if humans were perfect. I see at least two issues 1. Corruption in the chain. No way to verify that 100% of the proceeds are going to the needy when you’re talking about multinational aid. 2. The receiving country is now reliant on foreign aid. We’ve seen what happened when USAID was gutted by the government thousands of people reliant on the food and medicine will die while millions of dollars of food are sitting in a warehouse rotting somewhere. Bro until i own a home not a single dollar i make i consider disposable. These charities may as well donate to me. That said you are underrating entertainment hugely. Calling something that can provide you thousands of hours of entertainment temporary satisfaction” is an insane argument. And you clearly posted this on your phone or computer which according to you you don’t need so fucking sell it and donate it to a charity. Isnt it the leaders of places like Libera that have the moral responsibility to ensure for the wellbeing of LIberians rather than taking money to build palaces for themseles and fight wars on a whim? Rather than some random American thinking about upgrading their iPhone? Most suffering in the world isnt caused by simple lack of money but by corruption and even malace from leaders of those countries something donating your iPhone money isntt going to fix. As for donating to homeless beggers Im assuming you mean the people that purport that theyre homeless or vets or hungry by holding up cardboard signs with no actual proof of such. Isnt it more likely my money is going to go to crack meth weed smokes and booze as opposed to food and housing? The people of the United States give $½ trillion a year to charity organizations in a year. https//philanthropy.indianapolis.iu.edu/newsevents/news/_news/2024/givingusauscharitablegivingtotaled557.16billionin2023.html Thats about 2% GDP. How much is enough? Are you saying noone should ever buy an Xbox for $500 if there are people living on ≈ $2 a day? Or that you must donate a certain amount first? \ even directly to homeless beggars Former homeless man here. Please do not give money to homeless folks. Buy them food coffee a warm coat sure. But dont ever give them cash. You are literally giving them money they are going to use to hurt themselves. Even people that want the minimum wage at $15 are acknowledging about 31k a year is all you need. So anything above that should go to charity. I dont know why anyone should live in more than that when there are a still people starving to death. /s The point is I doubt you believe this unless you make under 31k a year. People with your view typically just think their life is average or just about right and it is people that live more extravagant that are immoral. I assume you are writing this post from the local library otherwise how can you justify a mobile phone or even laptop and Internet connection? You should know charities that focus on feeding the poor in these types of countries often end up exacerbating the very problem they are trying to solve. Giving out free food tends to hamper local food production getting off the ground to support the locals themselves. There isnt a farmer in the world who can compete against free food. Saving every person would overpopulate the planet over time. I look at it the same as animal populations. Overpopulation leads to disease and starvation. And as crude as it sounds we are just an advanced animal. Kursk operation conducted by AFU was pointless So the Ukrainian government stated that it was conducted in order to prevent russians from attacking Sumy and to make russians relocate their army from Donbas to Kursk But! If you open the warmap you will see that right after Kursk operation began russians started to gain more lands on Donbas so it means relocation didnt work out. And as we currently see russians not only retrieved the kursks lands back they entered the Sumy region and now the entire ukrainian public panicking about possible Sumy takeover. Ukraine has used military tactics to enact political strategy. UA defended Bakhmut long after it was militarily useful because it was Wagners war and they wanted to drive a wedge between Putin and Prighozin to destabilize the Kremlin leadership. Wagner rebellion happened soon after that. So maybe it worked... IMO Kursk was a similar operation. It forced Putin to deploy conscripts they are actually reservists more like US National Guard and also beg for help from North Korea. Capturing Russian territory was more a PR campaign than anything else. But this scheme was maybe not so successful if the intent was to destabilize Kremlin internal workings. I think the point of the whole exercise was to distract the Russkies from attacking the Ukrainian armed forces and civilians inside Ukraine and make them fight them on Russian territory instead. I don’t think they ever expected to hold the area long term it was just to buy them some time. It causes russians to hire Koreans. Spend money on Koreans and give / build them a shipwhich sank. It showed that invasion of russia is possible. And russia is not some strong defend country. It captured conscripts who were not supposed to defend border further showing how unprepared for invasion russia is. A lot of mothers woke up and began demanding exchange. It showed how weak chechens are and how quickly they run away. It was a great psychological operation and definitely brought a lot of commotion within russia. It also showed that trump administration working for russia since russia took Kursk region back after America stoped sharing satellite info with Ukraine. Its purpose was to held land and do a land swap since negotiations were coming soon. I could be wrong but if I remember correctly a significant reason or concern was the potential loss of Pokrovsk. Sure Donbas is and was still slowly being lost but it did succeed in avoiding a worse collapse. In that way I guess it was partially successful but I imagine not as successful and they probably didn’t/couldn’t predict how Trump would perceive things going forward so that could have incentivized pulling out quicker effectively undermining whatever original rationale there was and overriding it with a focus on how Trump perceives AFU actions. Ukrane is in a war of attrition with Russia. The general rule in modern warfare is the attacker loses more. Ukraine took the land in Kursk in a week. Russua grinded its troops for months to take it back. It was a great success for Ukraine. Not only PR but the losses both sides took capturing it. How is it not obvious that any resources Russia spend for retaking that could not be spend on other things at the time? They got it back and advised somewhere else slightly is a very basic understanding of strategy. In war one attacks at good opportunities. Ukraine let Russia spend a lot on retaking while not loosing as much. Simple as that. Theres no way to tell how would the fights go if Kursk didnt happen. Perhaps it would go even worse for Ukraine? Perhaps it would end up the same? There are too many unknowns to even argue about it. You cant grow fully as a person or develop deep empathy unless youve been exposed to people who dont look or live like you So i’ve been thinking about how much growing up in a multicultural and diverse environment has shaped the way i see the world particularly when it comes to tolerance empathy and understanding people who are different to me. It made me realise that a lot of my moral growth did not just come from family school or any of the other things that cause moral development. I think it came from being around people who didn’t look like me speak like me or share the same background. I dont mean this in a moral superiority type of way but I genuinely believe that people who grow up in homogenous spaces whether that’s racially culturally or socioeconomically often miss out on certain forms of selfawareness and empathy simply because they’ve never needed to. And thats okay its not someones fault if theyve never let their country that so happens to be homogenous. For example I know people who attend very elite universities with very little diversity and they don’t see the lack of representation as an issue. This is not because they’re evil or malicious but because they’ve always been in environments where everyone looks like them. To me that seems like a blind spot that could actually hinder their personal development. Important Disclaimers I’m not saying you can only be a good or moral person if you grow up in a diverse area. I’m not claiming that people from diverse environments are automatically better or more empathetic everyone has blind spots including me. I’m also not just talking about race. I’m including class religion ideology and life experience more broadly. If you think im overstating the importance do feel free to change my mind! I agree that exposure to different cultures and perspectives can *accelerate* growth but its simply not true that its *required* for full moral or emotional development. You’re conflating opportunity with necessity. Deep empathy and selfawareness arent only forged through diversity of others. They can also be forged through depth of reflection. Someone growing up in a homogenous environment can still develop profound empathy through literature art hardship religion introspection or moral philosophy. Consider monks who live in isolated uniform communities yet dedicate their lives to compassion. Or individuals raised in small rural towns who go on to become human rights activists. Their environment didn’t supply diversity their imagination and values did. Also equating homogeneity with emotional limitation assumes a kind of experiential determinism that flattens human complexity. People are not passive sponges. They can learn about lives unlike their own through stories service or sheer curiosity. Meanwhile growing up in a diverse area doesnt automatically grant wisdom or empathy. There are plenty of people who live in multicultural spaces and still hold ignorant or shallow worldviews. In short diversity is *one* path to empathy not the only one. Claiming otherwise risks devaluing the full spectrum of human growth. Mmmm. I agree to a point. I absolutely think someone can still develop deep empathy and grow into a wellrounded person and still be somewhat insular. I think its less about being exposed to other people who live/exist differently than you and more just understanding that your singular experience isnt what everyone sees and knows. I will absolutely agree that meeting/understanding different peoples and cultures can deepen that though. Thats why cultural/thought exchange is so important. We can only go so far on our own. How diverse? How different? Theres diverse places where people share a lot of traits. If were multicultural but behave similarly go about or days similarly does that cut the mustard? How exposed? It simply doesnt take long to be exposed to other ideas/cultures/ways of life. You neednt even leave your home to learn and see wherever you want and read about peoples experiences. If I do that from snowy white finland does that count? Whether someone looks and lives like you is relative to what? Relative to an alien from Mars everyone on Earth might look and live alike. Without a frame of reference I can pick out differences between any two households so how much difference do you need to be exposed to to become fully grown with deep empathy? I think that is categorically false. What constitutes different” is highly malleable and socially constructed. The differences that our society have said are highly salient such as skin color would literally not even matter in some societies or points in history. You don’t have to be raised around people with dark skin color to be capable of empathy towards humans with dark skin color. If you’ve never been taught that skin color is particularly significant you wouldn’t have any particular reason to bring any more or less empathy to bear on a person whose skin color is different. You absolutely CAN grow and develope empathy in a homogeneous culture. Its just much quicker easier and more likely to happen in a diverse one. Your truth seems trivial. How many people are never exposed to people who dont look or live like themselves? But yeah people raised in a Skinner box are likely to lack empathy. Practically speaking that is nobody Ive ever met. Also your definition of diversity seems disturbingly skin deep. OP may I ask since you cite yourself as an example of an individual who developed deep empathy from exposure to diversity what cultures countries societies religions etc have you been exposed to? I pretty much agree to what you say. I did not have empathy towards some types of addicts until I got depressed and became a social media addict myself. But I think compassion is also an important key in developing empathy. There are many priests who are born in wealthy Western families and grow up choosing to be a missionary in less developed countries. I think they seem to have empathy towards the poor and even criminals. Im from a race of people who were the only ones to Abolish slavery globally. We dont need any other culture as none are no where near fit to be valid next to the benevolent beliefs of mine. There should be no other valid culture than a one derived or part or the protestant Christian culture. All other cultures have not had a period of enlightenment. There is MORE slavery today than at any other time in history. I mean I dunno man…I grew up in a very white area where everyone was solidly middle class. Our next door neighbors were black and then one day they moved because they got too rich and successful. And good for them! They worked hard and deserve it. But by your post that somehow isn’t a good thing. All it taught me as a kid was that anyone can open a business work hard and be successful. *books have entered the chat* This is one reason diverse literature is essential. They allow you to experience other ways of living when it may be impossible or very bad for whatever reason to access this diversity IRL. Bad you ask? Yes. Think abuse extreme poverty etc. So blind people cant have empathy? Completely misread your title and thought it said grow a human and I was prepared to come here and say ....unfortunately bud you can 🤣🤣 thabk god i re read it before replying. Perhaps I’m misunderstanding your point. I think we benefit personally from being exposed to multiple beliefs and ideas for the reasons you stated but you seem to equate diversity of beliefs and cultures to appearance which i interpret as primarily genetics. I’ve noted that these days many groups even those that are genetically diverse are actually very similar regarding most of their ideas and behavior and if you talk with one there’s substantial concordance with another of that group. They often like the same styles music are similar educational levels and with the similar political and social beliefs. They also often shun others who don’t share these beliefs. I realize I’m being a bit harsh in that it’s comforting to find people who are from different backgrounds but other than recognizing the old saying that you shouldn’t judge a book by its cover” I’m not sure how that’s strongly enlightening. Being exposed to people with different ideas independent of their looks seems to open one’s mind more deeply and help develop empathy which is much more difficult to achieve especially if your own beliefs are easily threatened. You truly have to focus on finding what you have in common. So poor people in third world countries that cant afford to travel = lesser people? Try reading a fkn book mate tourism is a consumer choice not a path to enlightenment Well I would have said you were overstating the importance until you undercut yourself with your disclaimers. 🤷‍♂️ That said I will share the reason why I think your initial claim is mistaken applied insight. What is applied insight? Well I think of it as the ability to take a lesson learned in one space and apply it to another space. With applied insight in theory you can study one thing comprehensively and as a result understand a great number of things you’ve never encountered. Applied Insight is a tool that can be developed enhanced by talents like pattern recognition and intuitive thinking. Simply said a person who develops their insight requires less exposure to a thing sometimes none before they can claim a thorough understanding of it. This claim is baffling only to those who underestimate the power of the mind that they use daily. Ive had similar experiences but I think you get diversity anywhere. Lgbtq people cant help being born in places with low tolerance and neurodiversity is also always going to be around no matter what. Class differences can be noted almost anywhere. Diversity that gets recognition is all about unions forming so to speak. Personally its nice when respect is a requirement. For me being required to develop more tolerance or empathy has made me feel like Im growing and like I can be proud of myself. You want to meet others where theyre at. I think this is the type of experience youre referring to. Then regardless of the objective diversity you dont always get a culture that prioritizes being kind to people who are on the margins. Seems like your confusing empathy with ... antiracism? Cultural sensitivity? Or maybe specifically empathy for people from different cultures. I can see how living somewhere multicultural could help with that but I couldnt see how living somewhere multicultural could help with empathy overall or in situations that arent specific to that. Say if someone from each came across an injured child or heard a baby crying or had to interact with someone with a mental illness or got trapped by a natural disaster or really any situation that inspires empathy and isnt directly related to culture I dont think theyd feel any different to each other in these situations based on the variety of people that they have regularly interacted with. Everyone looks different and lives different than everyone else. Youre cherry picking. I consider myself to be better than average at understanding peoples feelings and where theyre coming from and why they do the things they do. I grew up in a pretty homogenous small town and have always attributed this to the fact that I read a lot as a kid. Im not sure if this is true empathy. I think it may be something called cognitive empathy which is just one kind of empathy out there. I think your point is still true but I also think there are ways to be really emotionally intelligent even if you dont grow up in a diverse environment. You cant grow fully as a person or develop deep empathy unless youve been exposed to people who dont look or live like you Do you apply this only to privilegesd people? I have met people that have never left their area of their country. They have never met foreigners before. They live in one room houses that are mulrigenerational. And despite all their hardships they have the biggest hearts. I guess you could argue they couldnt empathize with someone with a first world problem but I cant really think of what that example might be. It certainly helps but its not a limiting factor. If you disregard the exposure we get from the internet and just focus on the exposure we gain in real life it still does not prevent you from developing empathy or perspective. Growth in the manner you speak of comes from many things but its never one thing. Juxtapose the situation and you will still see people who grow up in a multicultural environment that dont have a great sense of empathy. Virtue signaling is pride one of the seven deadly sins. Okay so I agree with your core idea that exposure is key for empathy. My only pushback is that exposure doesnt always have to be physical proximity. You can grow a ton by engaging deeply with different viewpoints online getting involved in global causes or even just having diverse friendships that challenge your perspective. Its about opening your mind not just your neighborhood. I remember in college when a guy I knew talked about how the police once stopped him halfblack looks black when he was driving with his mom Asian to ask her if he had taken her prisoner. I was floored. It had never really hit me that that kind of stereotyping really happens all the time until I heard about it happening to one of my friends. It can help but too many think that they have a greater understanding /empathy because they are part of the whats in dei minorities rights and all that. Cities are the most aggressive and racist from what Ive seen. Rural areas pretty much believe people are created in the image of God so they are equal I disagree because it seems like thats how you developed empathy. I developed it by being severely abused as a kid. I go out of my way to include everyone and be always be kind so no one has to feel how I feel. I knew to ask how to support people as a preteen. I guess most people in most societies for most of human history just weren’t fully grown people capable of deep empathy then. Globalization and frequent contact with other cultures is so incredibly new compared to the 300k years homo sapiens have been around I learned much of my empathy for minorities in an all white public health class. I lived in the Midwest where we really don’t have much going on except Native Americans who are pretty separated from my community and white people. So for example cultures that exist in the jungle or otherwise isolated from the rest of the world can’t develop fully grown and empathetic people? Seriously? Are we counting Disney movies about an alien species being discriminated against as exposure you can learn moral lessons and empathy from fiction media The Japanese and Chinese people never grew as a people because they were not exposed to other people who didnt look like them. [removed] [removed] Dont you mean broader empathy instead of deep empathy? Empathy is the ability to put yourself in another’s shoes without having to actually experience the thing or things they are going through. The actual issue is the society you’ve grown up in Western nations dehumanizes anyone not from those places so you don’t build that empathy. You need to unlearn this and in the long term change the society so that it no longer does this. [removed] Sure. [removed] Israel would be a full pariah state isolated from the rest of the world without US support If the US pulled all of their political military and economic support from Israel I think the overwhelming majority of the world would quickly turn on them. The US is the main reason why Israel isn’t isolated right now. The US always veto UN resolutions send tens of billions in aid and they have pressure their allies to stay friendly with Israel. Israel isn’t well liked by the world theres over 40 Muslim countries that despise Israel and would cheer for their destruction and in the western world Israel public image has suffered massively after October 7th with the vast majority of westerners having unfavorable views on Israel. Source https//www.pewresearch.org/shortreads/2025/06/03/mostpeopleacross24surveyedcountrieshavenegativeviewsofisraelandnetanyahu/ We are seeing so many western countries including so Israeli allies like like Ireland Mexico Norway Slovenia Denmark Spain Malta France and UK recognizing or want to recognize Palestine and recently in the EU parliament 17 out of 26 EU countries voted in favor Economic sanctions on Israel. Without US backing I think countries would start treating Israel the way they do the same way Iraq was treated under Saddam massive sanctions diplomatic isolation and full trade ban Note that I am not saying Israel would disappear or get invaded like Iraq but without the U.S. shielding them I think they’d be way more alone on the world stage and they would definitely struggle economically like Cuba right now. You’ve got to separate survey results from diplomacy. Popular opinion in a country frequently does not determine the actions of a government. The Arab states that have normalised relations with Israel did so despite the overwhelming hostility to Israel amongst their populations. You can’t attribute that solely to US pressure when countries like UAE and Morocco are continuing trade ties with Israel including purchasing Israeli weapons If the EU decision actually makers actually wanted to cut diplomatic or trade ties with Israel they could quite easily. They choose not to because Israel is a Western ally in a region that mostly isn’t friendly to Western interests. The EU also appreciates that Israel is fighting extremists who the EU classify as terrorists that’s very different to despots like Saddam who started a conflict with Iran and indiscriminately gassed Kurdish civilians Your assertion that 17 EU states voted for economic sanctions on Israel is false. In reality they voted to review the trade deal the EU had with Israel any attempted suspension by left of centre EU states would be blocked because the EU decisions need unanimity. The EU governments such as Spain who are vociferously opposed to Israel are typically left wing who normally are hostile to Israel. That can easily change in an election. You’re also forgetting US adversaries who maintain ties with Israel. Russia and China maintain good diplomatic relations and trade ties with Israel despite being unaffected by US pressure. China invests billions in Israel and is the second biggest trading partner of Israel Was it like that before the US gave support? Seems like you are forgetting that part of history and Israel was still successful Having worked with many Jewish business owners in accounting I can say with confidence that there are billions in private donations and financial support flowing to Israel from individuals communities and organizations worldwide not just from the U.S. government. This includes large fundraising networks in North America Europe and even Latin America as well as powerful diaspora organizations that consistently mobilize private capital for Israeli causes whether humanitarian military educational or techbased. While U.S. government backing certainly plays a strategic and diplomatic role the global Jewish diaspora’s financial and organizational support for Israel is deeply entrenched and resilient and wouldn’t just vanish if the U.S. stepped back. That economic lifeline from wealthy donors endowments and business relationships would likely continue to give Israel a degree of insulation against total isolation especially when it comes to keeping sectors like tech defense and innovation strong. So yes U.S. backing is a key pillar but it’s not the only pillar keeping Israel afloat internationally. You know the Arab states actually like Israel right? Not the people sure and not as good pals but as a convenient political entity. Israel keeps the Palestinians down the people in and the Iranians out. The Jordanians Egyptians Lebanese Syrians and Saudis dont want Palestinian refugees and Israel is a convenient government to do their dirty work. Hatw for Israel is soemthing leaders can always tap into to shore up their political regimes which is also something they appreciate. The Saudis appreciate that Israel will keep Iran a nonnuclear State to maintain the balance of power. China would happily step in. Possibly Russia. Israel is strategically important foreign policywise. They also likely have nukes. The US wasn’t supporting Israel just out of the goodness of its heart. Foreign policy is about power. Israel is not at all in the same position as Iraq was. Intel makes a lot of their chips in Isreal. Also Isreal and India have a very close relationship. I think this is one of the biggest misconceptions in IR today. International Relations are ultimately reciprocal. Despite apearences Israel has a lot to offer militarily economically and politically. is a good example of Israel influencing a country that isnt the US. At the slightest hesitation of the Obama administration Israel easily pivoted to Russia. Israel intentionally cultivates relations with many countries you wouldnt think of as Israeli Allies Azerbaijan Singapore Vietnam China and many others. Pivoting away from the US wouldnt be the first pivot either Israels first Sugar Daddy was actually France. France was the original supplier of Israels air power and even helped Israel develope nuclear weapons. You made three main points so I’ll tackle them one by one. 1. Without the U.S. Israel would be isolated.” Honestly U.S. aid is a tiny piece of Israel’s economy—about 1% of GDP and ~15% of its defense budget. It’s helpful sure but Israel isn’t collapsing without it. And let’s not forget the aid is part of a broader regional balance like the Egypt peace deal so cutting it off would mean the U.S. also has to stop giving money to Egypt and others which they’re definitely not eager to do. Plus Israel’s not stuck with the U.S. as its only option. It’s already building strong ties with Europe and Asia—record arms exports $14.8B in 2024 booming tech industry growing trade with China and India. If things really soured with the U.S. Israel could pivot eastward and still be just fine. 2. Everyone hates Israel—look at the UN.” Yeah the UN is full of resolutions against Israel. That’s not news. In fact in 2024 the UN passed 17 resolutions against Israel and just six for the rest of the world combined. That’s not balance—that’s obsession. But despite all that Israel’s economy is strong its defense industry is booming and it’s still a hub for innovation. More patents and unicorn startups per capita than just about anywhere. That stuff matters way more than symbolic UN votes. If Israel was truly isolated countries wouldn’t be lining up to buy its tech and weapons. 3. The West is turning on Israel.” Some Western governments are more critical lately but that doesn’t mean theyre cutting ties. A lot of it is performative politics—saying the right things for their base while still doing business as usual behind the scenes. And let’s be real public opinion shifts fast. It wasn’t long ago that Ukraine had 100% support and now you’re seeing people get fatigued there too. As for the genocide claims—people were shouting that on October 8th literally the day after the Hamas massacre. It’s clear the labels were political from the start. And while you can argue about tactics most military experts actually view the civiliantocombatant ratio as low given the urban combat in Gaza. Israel has invested a lot into minimizing civilian harm—AI targeting roof knocks phone calls to evacuate. You don’t have to love it but the methods are being studied by other militaries for a reason. Israel’s still a democracy flawed like most are has a high human development score and isn’t going anywhere. Even without U.S. backing it’s a country with a ton of talent resources and connections. The idea that it’d suddenly be Iraq 2.0 without U.S. help just doesn’t hold up. Also let’s be honest academic takes on this topic are super polarized. Most proIsrael scholars haven’t suddenly switched sides and neither have the antiIsrael ones. The narratives are already entrenched and with 2 billion Muslims worldwide of course their framing gets louder. Doesn’t automatically make it right. Were in a TikTok age where public opinions a formed and deformed in a heartbeat. Israel and the Jews have been world scapegoats for eons and it is easy for them to be cast that way again for political gain. All ME countries other than Israel are effective dictatorships and all good dictatorships need boogie men to distract their populations with a role Israel has played valiantly since its inception. Right now Europe like an idiot has welcomed tons of ME people who dont have any appreciation for the human rights that and moral standards that have been fought for there. Those are a very loud and voting population who can now rage without the accountability they would have in their home countries. The general dislike for Israel is proportionate to the increase in those populations. So if antidemocratic people hating on Israel and political parties appeasing them is an indication then yeah but in the same token Europe and likely Canada and maybe the US are screwed as real democracies as well. With all that going to my first line were in a strange time with social networking and AI shaping public opinion like it was clay ... lets see how we survive that. My one take though is that the Jews will survive and ultimately thrive like they have no matter what evil crap was thrown at them. If US will become hostile to Israel it will be very bad for Israel but will not devastate the country. Israel won 48 and 67 wars the last great wars it actually won in a determined way despite US embargo. In the scenario of a hostile US I can see 3 possible developments 1. Jews in US are very Zionist and they are more wealthy and educated on average. They will support the country with donations and with actual immigration which will strengthen the country. 2. China will jump on the opportunity with 2 hands a nuclear power with advanced tech? With direct access to US tech? And lots of potential agents in US and Europe? Amazing opportunity for China. Israel already cultivated ties with China which it had to freeze due to US pressure. 3. Europe Canada UK are no longer directly aligned with the US maybe a recognition of Palestine will pave the way for Israel joining the EU or strengthening ties with these countries. Everybody is hungry for Israel Cyber and Defense Tech Europe would not like it to fall into Chinese and Russian hands. Dont look at UN votes. Look at military sales and economic ties .For its size Israel is a major supplier of arms and tech R&ampD. This is even among Muslim countries which have overt or covert economic and/or military ties. Even china owns Israeli port a significant investment. Most countries its not in their best interest to cut ties with Israel although they dont mind keeping it humble every now and then just to keep prices low. Ironically Palestine would be a pariah state isolated from rest of the world if not for US support [deleted] The thing with Israel its pretty much the only democracy in the middle east and therefore extremely important to the west as whole. Its an important arms manufacturer for European countries especially with the US on the retreat and the EU needing time to get its own defemce industry back on track and pretty much the only thing held against it at the moment is Gaza. A conflict that it will realistically not be abled to continue for much longer in the way the war is conducted at the moment not because of international pressure but pressure from within. Dont overestimate Palestine being recognized too thats a mostly symbolic act as there is no government or state to speak of except for the autonomy authority to which almost everyone in Europe has some kind of relations. But I think you actually miss the most important factor which is Israels second most important Ally after the US Germany. Almost nothing in the EU is decided against Germanys explicit dissent. Not only because it has Veto power on many decisions like every country or its hard to get qualified majorities for others without Germanys over 80 million inhabitants but because Germany is soft power powerhouse in Europe in many fields. France is more important in shaping Europes foreign policy but just as Germany will usually consult with France to not cross any red lines of their most important ally so will France in return. Germany considers tze safety of Israel a Staatsräson which can roughly be translated as a reason of state. Germany considers the safe existence of a jewish state for jews to have a homeland to flee to if every being under threat again one of its reasons for being allowed to exist and act in international politics after the horrors of the holocaust. Even though chancellor Merz recently criticized the conduct of the IDF in Gaza this has to be viewed as an attack on the Netanyahu government rather than a change of tone towards Israel as a whole. Merz even stated although realizing he wouldnt be abled to do that due to probabl court orders he couldnt defy he wouldnt be willing to arrest an Isreali prime minister Netamyahu inspite of international arrest warrants if he wanted to visit Germany because it couldnt be that an Israeli politician wasnt safe in Germany at all times. Therefore although obviously not a US like power Germany would probably step in if the US took a step back and guarantee Israels seat at the table in western diplomacy. Although I highly doubt that any western country wouldnt support any other Israeli government anyway five or ten years into the future after the probabl end of the war in Gaza with everything being basically reset to the status quo ante. Israel isn’t well liked by the world theres over 40 Muslim countries that despise Israel and would cheer for their destruction and in the western world Israel public image has suffered massively after October 7th with the vast majority of westerners having unfavorable views on Israel. Do you not realize Israel is basically a Bastion of western ideology in a sea of Muslim oppression? Obviously those authoritarian regimes would like to see them fall. In those 40 countries gay marriage isnt even a thought they are more worried about keeping it hidden so they are not publicly murdered to the cheers of a crowd. Do you realize Hamas wants the west to hate Israel and constantly attacking them while hiding behind hospitals and schools so any retaliation gives Israel a black eye is the whole purpose? Oct 7 was never going to topple Israel by force but its succeeding in turning western countries against Israel. These types of posts are litteraly furthering a terrorist agenda. Do you think it would be good if Israel fell to the Palestinians and became another authoritarian Muslim country? They would scroll through the recordings of the last gay pride parade Israel had and slaughter everyone that attended and you think thats better because Israel had enough of terrorists and the people who harbored them are paying a severe price? People will change their minds. There’s a lot of propaganda surrounding this war. Lot of dirty tactics. Notice how nobody ever talked about Hamas? The conversation was entirely about Israel. That’s the point.” Hamas The west doesn’t understand ideals you’d be willing to die for. We were introduced to the darkness at 9/11 but Israel was born in it Some guy from Batman. When we took out two countries you know why we did it? Because we lost a teeny/tiny fraction of our population. But for Israel 10/7 killed a huge fraction of Israelis. DO THE MATH YOURSELF. Everyone forgot about the tunnel network already. There will be lots of footage of that released eventually. And where did they get that idea? Vietnam. And didn’t US get like 25% of civilian casualties for that war? What about comparing apples to apples —or at least close. Iraq. What was the civilian casualty rate? Like over 60%! Israel civilian casualties rate is staggering at 80%! But wait ITS HAMAS GIVING US THESE NUMBERS and if you believe it out right because Hamas said it then you hate Jews. Simple. In a tightly packed Iraq you’re gonna get a lot of casualties especially when the people have a highly developed philosophy of MARTYDOM. And you don’t have to always volunteer because if you die they consider it part of the war and you’re a martyr in their eyes even if you didn’t want to die for HAMAS! Hamas fought from behind civilians. They threw rocks and hid their hands. I’m not judging. I think we should be studying for when USA goes corrupt. I mean full on corrupt. Wait… are we there lol Moving along The US hasn’t been in a good war since when? I bet your entire life they’ve been fighting Cold War nonsense or Terrorism”. Am I rite? What is this Cold War except a WAR of ECONOMICS. And I tell you that isn’t a good fight. Jews have nowhere else to call their home except the place that WAS CALLED JUDEA UNTIL ROME RENAMED IT AFTER ANCIENT JEWISH ENEMIES THE PHILISTINES. It’s the land of JUDEA. Say it with me JEWdaya. Pick up a Bible it has all the info threre. Then you’ll need to study the JewishRoman war. Jews fought so hard for so long Romans had to crucify thousands of them and destroy all their buildings and salt the Earth and rename it Palestine so people would forget the Jews and Judea. Spoiler Alert Jews KEPT their IDENTITY. Romans wouldn’t let Jews live in Judea renamed Palestine. So guess what they eventually went to Europe where civilisation was developing. Then EUROPE purged its Jews and Russia purged Jews so Israel was born. Between the USA and Israel there’s half Jews here and half in Israel now. But now Jews are rethinking their place in the USA with all the antisemitism. What happens to nations that purge their Jews? Should check that out. It’s not a good idea to kick out your best and brightest lol. Doesn’t end well. But Jews will endure. Anyhow back to Judea. I mean Palestine sorry. The people living there didn’t belong to anyone really for a long long time. They lived like shepherds. Look at before and after pictures of Palestine vs today. Palestine became an actual place with tall buildings and everything AFTER DIFFERENT GROUPS IN THE AREA GAINED AN IDENTITY —BY OPPOSING ISRAEL. ISRAEL WAS OPEN TO SHARING THE LAND. THE PALESTINIANS” they’re not ancestors of the Philistines rejected any offer. Since then how many fights have there been? How has the peace process looked on the Palestinian side last three decades? Buffer zone after buffer zone was the result of every big. attack on Israel. I say big because they get shot at regularly we just don’t hear about them because Israel has the Iron Dome. Literally they NEED the Iron dome since the neighbour’s want to keep land THEY CONQUERED. But in truth Arabs and the language of Arabic and the religion of Islam come from….Arabia!!! They conquered the land with sword in the Name of Allah. But their right to the land was no greater than Rome’s who also took it by sword. Liberals in USA some reason support a conquering Muslim Arab army and their lands but not Israel who WAS GIVEN THE LAND LEGALLY. Then they fought all their neighbors AND WON. Muslims wanted the land but I guess ALLAH WASNT WILLING. SO HOW DOES ONE OWN LAND. LET US DISCUSS THIS BASIC PRINCIPLE. Why are all these Redditors complaining about people they’ve never met? Palestinians and Jews being a super minority in the USA. Has anyone actually grew up around Jews or had dinner with Jews? I think IDENTITY POLITICS has taken over the nation and everyone wanna FIT IN and not understand the reality we live in. Israel is the USA’s greatest ally in the Middle East. WE LITERALLY HABE THE SAME ENEMIES IN THE MUSLIM FUNDAMENTALISTS Palestine is teamed up with Iran! Why are supporting people who not only want Israel gone but THEY ALSO WANT THE WEST GONE!!! The GREAT SATAN IS USA LOLOL. THIS IS THE MENTALITY ISRAEL IS FIGHTING. YES NATIONS ALL MAKE MISTAKES. BUT LIKE TRUMP DOESN’T REPRESENT EVERYONE IN THE USA. IN FACT BARELY EVEN 50%!!!!! ISRAEL HAS THE SAME SUPPORT FOR NETANYAHU! Like 40% approval and majority DONT LIKE HIM. SAME IS GOING ON IN THE UK!!! Should the world hate ALL of the USA because of friggen Trump??? Of course not!! Bottom line. A war has begun. Allies are being separated by propaganda. It’s part of the plan coming from the East. Russia is attacking the west on its Eastern side. We all await China on the Western side. But it began with dividing us. I say bye bye to all fundamentalists and they need to go settle one big country so they can all just have at it with each other while the rest of us work together for a better tomorrow. This won’t happen without Israel. Am chai Y’Israel 🇮🇱 Israel just announced a record in arms sales near 15 billion dollars just last year. More than 50% of the deals are to Europe. This country is objectively a leader in a lot of fields and many countries would love to have stronger ties with Israel. Everything you hear in the news is literally just to appease the muslim vote which is just numericly too big to not try and appease. At the end of the day non of those countries would have reacted better to some terror group breaching their border killing raping and kidnapping hundreds of their citizens. If America left Israel Israel would enter the China/Russia orbit very quickly. They both have a ton of US military secrets and they are a technological powerhouse. Not to mention the expansive intelligence network they have. Israel is too valuable of a regional player to not be scooped up by a bigger state. You are failing to distinguish between public opinion and public policy. 1. Theres a huge difference between cricicism of Isaraeli government policy &amp total diplomatic isolation. Foreign policy is rarely if not never dictated by public sentiment and despite public opinions in many countries they still maintain fairly robust relationship from defense contracts and security cooperations. 2. Theres zero chance that China &amp Russia would go along with isolation tactics if it opened up opportunities to gain influence in the region. Did you know that Israel is one of only countries in nonexSoviet bloc / South America where its citizen can just hop on plane at any time and go to Russia for fun? 3. Israel was never a natural resource rich country nor was it a dictatorship country that went to war with its neighbors for fun like Saddam did so that comparison doesnt work. Its economy is powered by high tech and cybersecurity industry so zero chance that gets isolated. Its true that the United States plays a major role in Israel’s diplomatic and military position... but the idea that Israel would become a full pariah state without U.S. support overlooks several key dynamics. First Israel has established significant economic and technological ties with countries beyond the U.S. Its innovation sector particularly in cybersecurity medical technology and agriculture has led to strong partnerships with nations like India Japan Germany the UK and several African countries. Many of these relationships are based on mutual economic interest not just U.S. pressure. Second Israel’s recent normalization agreements with several Arab and Muslimmajority nations... including the Abraham Accords with the UAE Bahrain Morocco and Sudan... demonstrate that its regional isolation has already started to shift. These were not brokered solely by U.S. force but involved longterm strategic considerations by the countries themselves. As for UN votes and international sentiment it’s important to recognize that votes at the UN General Assembly are nonbinding and often reflect domestic political posturing rather than actionable foreign policy. Countries frequently vote symbolically without translating that into economic or diplomatic disengagement. Regarding public opinion the Pew survey shows that Israels image has taken a hit especially since the October 7th attacks and subsequent war in Gaza... but image does not necessarily translate into fullscale diplomatic abandonment. Public opinion in many democratic nations does influence policy but not always in direct or absolute ways especially in matters of national interest trade and security cooperation. Lastly while U.S. support offers Israel unique strategic advantages Israel has consistently demonstrated a high degree of selfreliance... including developing its own defense technologies like Iron Dome maintaining a strong domestic arms industry and securing energy independence through offshore natural gas fields. So yes Israel without U.S. backing would face new diplomatic and economic challenges... but the idea that it would become a pariah state on the level of Saddam’s Iraq or Cuba under embargo simplifies a far more complex and resilient geopolitical reality. Not everyone on the left wants Israel to be a pariah state. I speak as someone who has always been against Israeli oppression of the Palestinians but I see the BDS movement as being unnecessarily antagonistic. I think that people who want peace have to work for peace on both sides. It’s extraordinarily complex. To support Israel” can be seen as being wanting a peaceful resolution to the conflict and also supporting the cause against right wing elements in Israel. Because the way I see it the right wing militarization and occupation is ultimately very destructive to the integrity of Israel. The right wing is happy to have Israel be a pariah state. They want the population to feel paranoid that everyone is out to get them and that it is an existential battle against antisemitism. It happens to be that the situation IS existential but it’s one that Israel has participated in creating. Furthermore I know a lot of people from the EU left who say that the problem of Israel/Palestine really is magnified in the USA and it isn’t something that animates the left in Europe. Perhaps because they know that they hold historical guilt for the situation that led Jews to flee to Israel in the first place. But what they say is generally true. The Gaza war / ethnic cleansing is horrific but it’s not more horrific that other ethnic cleansing or wars elsewhere it just happens that there is a lot more media coverage and there is a lot more suffering concentrated in a very limited amount of space so it seems more intense than another conflict such as in Sudan where it’s spread out over hundreds of miles and it’s not reportable in the same way. Israel is a democratic state in a region that’s never known that. Women and gays have equal rights. Arabs are part of the government and live comfortably there. Every progressive nation on earth not just the US has reason to support the big picture idea of Israel. If Israel lost influence to the larger Arab world that would be very bad for women gays Europe western civilization etc. Other countries that care about that stuff would fill the void quickly to keep Israel afloat. I don’t think this recognizes how geopolitics works. The other major powers could support Israel if they could get the benefits of a solid ally in the region. You actually aren’t cynical enough. The USA supports Israel for geopolitical reasons it is a foothold in a region which has value. France UK or even Russia would love to have that same foothold. While there is no likelihood of US losing its access other nations have more to gain out of pandering to Islamic countries for concessions. But if they could have an unsinkable air craft carrier in the region it would be more valuable than friendship with Israel’s enemies. [removed] The US began supporting Israel after they agreed not to occcupy major territory around themselves they won in their like 4th major defensive war. Do you not realize how significantly more wise Israels position is to be more offensive than they are? If you remove oil extraction then their economy is 40x the entire Middle East. They also have for their economic size the most competant and well funded military in the world. On top of this Israeli restrictions on combat are greater than any other nations in the world. Their tactics activelt undermine themselves due to how much they basically tell their enemies they are coming in order to minimize civilian casualties. You must not think about the situation Israel could be in and think about the one they are in. They are the single land of their people. They have a history of genocides. Their neighbours have a history of instigating conflicts. The occupied people near them have exploited every deal theyve ever made to minimize their suffering. If you cut off their support then they are doomed in their current strategy. The only logical thing to do would be to be far more proactive in the Middle East. You do realise Israel kicked multiple arab states ass in conflict when it was attacked by them even before receiving open US support as much as people hate the country never understood why i never understood why would you fuck with a nation who fought 5 countries at the same time and won and managed to build a nuke WITHOUT oil money or real resources ask yourself why Maybe just maybe they are smart determined and ready at all times and not just a medieval natural resource state like most of its neighbpurs for the record i am from europe and not jewish but for the love of god i do not understand jewish hate Please try to get your facts right and presented accurately. US aid to Israel is under 4 billion a year and about the same that Egypt and Jordan get. It is less than one percent of the total US defense budget and would be used to support US defense interests in other ways if not via Israel. The socalled aid has to be spent in the US and provides jobs for tens of thousands of American directly and many more indirectly. It is also against Israeli interests in that it stymies the local arms industryand making Israeli subservient to US dictates. Apart from that Israeli companies invest heavily in the US and provide jobs for tens of thousands of Americans. One tiny Jewish country not popular in a world that is predominantly Muslim and Christian and predominantly M and C on account of real colonialism invasion and ethnic cleansing funny that. Also a world that relies heavily on oil when said Muslim countries are the source of much of the worlds oil. The fact that the vast majority of westerners being unfavorable to Israel for the audacity to fight back after the atrocities of Oc7 says more about them than Israel. Everything you write only confirms that this is a religious war Islam will not tolerate dhimmi Jews being sovereign in their own country. Especially as it was an area that Muslims once included in their vast portfolio of conquest and colonisation the irony is that they have their sights set on Spain next. You go Spain when you find yourself in the firing line of dar al harb. Europe otoh has not forgiven the Jews for surviving the Holocaust. Allowed to live as a small cowered minority but not as a sovereign nation masters of their destiny. Dont forget the Inquisition chased Jews to the other side of the world in Latin America so determined were they. The Jewish Israeli population is the most resourceful in the world bar none. And you clearly miss the most important aspect of all Gd Himself is obviously on Israels side. To survive as a scattered exiled nation after many centuries of persecution by said Christians and Muslims to return home to build a beautiful thriving country one of the happiest in the world is literally miraculous. [removed] Israel should not be a pariah state There has never been a country of Palestine. Jews and Arabs have lived in that territory since the earliest recorded history. The Ottoman Empire controlled that territory since the 1500s. The people were never offered citizenship by the Ottoman Empire. Near the end of the 19th century when antisemitism was ramping up in most parts of the world the Jews started migrating to the territory and were welcomed by Jews Muslims and Christians. The Ottomans sided with Germany during WWI. As a part of the surrender Britain took over the territory. No citizenship was offered by the Brits either. After WWII The UN divided up the territory designating a place for Arabs and a place for Jews. The Jews almost immediately issued a declaration of independence from British rule and declaring Israel a sovereign country. In that declaration of independence Israel offered full citizenship to any Arabs living in the Jewish part of the territory. There were 155000 Arabs that accepted Israels offer and became citizens. That population grew and now 1 in 5 Israelis is an Arab. There were 800000 that rejected the offer of citizenship. Egypt Iraq Jordan Lebanon and Syria declared war on the new state of Israel almost immediately. Those 5 countries and the Palestinian Arabs that joined them lost that war. Those 5 Arab countries could have and should have absorbed the 800000 that rejected Israels offer of citizenship. Instead they left them in place as suffering refugees for the last 7 decades. Israelis are a unique group of individuals. They’re like Batman they’ve got a plan on how to kill their enemies 10 ways and their friends 15 ways. Being constantly threatened from multiple sides will harden you in a way most people can’t understand. I don’t think the US is doing as much for them as you think. I understand what you’re saying and I see it but the reality is European’s moderate and left party is having a hard time staying in power. They can denounce whatever they like and write strongly worded letters but they’re not going to do anything. The US leaving whatever that means wouldn’t suddenly see the EU loan” Palestine weapons like they do for Ukraine. Countries like Saudia Arabia give precisely 0 fucks about Palestinians per a direct quote from their king. It isn’t like if the US disappeared tomorrow people would rush to help Palestine. Those of us who have been alive and adults for 4050 years like world politicians are fully aware that Palestine is and has been a really really bad actor and that the world would be better with out it. We are burdened by altruism but many leaders are not and stability for a region at the expense of a group of people is acceptable. We’re just not allowed to say that and actually stepping in and stopping the bullshit would probably be the final straw in seeing the EU adopt a far right stance. Historically they had support from other nations e.g. the UK and France and they have decent relations with Russia. If the US hadnt developed the relationship that they have with Israel it is likely that Israel would have made an effort to foster stronger relations with other countries perhaps Russia to prop it up. India even could be a decent ally as they are pretty amicable now. China has somewhat chilly relations with Israel but if Israel didnt have US support they could attempt to develop a good relationship with China. Israel serves a useful role in the middle east for the US and so the US supports it. If the US didnt support Israel then Israel could serve that useful role for another state and that state would support them. Obviously the fact that the US is or at least has been definitively the strongest power means that in alternate situation where Israel is propped up by another power Israel would be worse off. Especially in a scenario where it largely relies on Russian support which I think would probably actually be the most likely alternate scenario it would be more isolated more of a pariah and economically worse off but still not entirely. Obviously if we are discussing a situation where the US withdrew its support immediately now then Israel probably would be a total pariah or it would have to somehow scramble to gain support from elsewhere rapidly. Possibly if withdrawal of US support led to Israel being militarily or existentially threatened then the EU would probably step in to prevent despite their moderately oppositional attitude. many Muslims countries dont really care about palestinian why would you think that western countries solidarity with gazans is anything but performative? no country would end economic ties with a high economically and technologically advanced nation which doesnt threaten them directly just because they wage a war in a different from you region you have nothing to do with being allies with Israel will always be more beneficial than being enemies with it for any country and that what actually matters I mean what is a pariah state? this seems like another Israel CMV that smacks of wishful thinking against the worlds only Jewish state. There are no true pariah states in this world. Russia still conducts trade with almost all of Europe. China and Saudi Arabias human rights records make no difference to almost anyone. Cuba Venezuela and Iran may be pariahs politically but their misery is primarily due to their own corrupt and mismanaged systems I think you vastly underestimate Israels independent capacity as a regional powerhouse with an educated and capable population and a vibrant culture. I invite you to visit and see for yourself. Shalom. If your argument is about what \*would\* happen rather than just what you think \*should\* happen I think youre wrong. Israel would probably seek out and obtain stronger partnerships with countries like China. Israels tech and pharma prowess alone makes it an unlikely candidate for fullblown isolation. I disagree because you arent thinking of what happens after day 1. In this case when the US pulls out Israel would not have allies yet. But Israel and AIPAC spend a lot of money on our politicians to keep us as an ally. If that money is freed up from us I think Israel could find other corrupt politicians who will take that money and they would have a new ally very shortly after. Well the US isnt stupid they understand the importance of Israel. Considering the recent leaked reports of Muslim brotherhood infiltrating government positions in many European countries especially the UK and France I would take what they say right now with a grain of salt As an American Jew reading this thread is fascinating. I don’t know how to explain this but the most fervent state actors against Israel of late South Africa would still rather have diplomatic relationships with Israel than not. What’s most interesting to me here is the suggestion that other countries would abandon Israel. The Uk populace might not like Israel but there’s no government there not even a Jeremy corbyn Labour one that would treat Israel like a pariah state. And he’s an antisemitic pos or was. You’re dealing with an economic cultural and politically developed nation. Which is a good partner to have in a world not filled with that many of them. While I understand the premise here it’s almost impossible to even consider the USA not supporting Israel. Israel’s actions might make a vocal minority of our country mad enough for this there’s no Arab partner in the world that meets the criteria to supplant Israel. We didn’t even make Saudi Arabia a pariah after they executed the wash post reporter. I mean you can sanction your friends in ir while still being their friend Muslims dont like jews or most nonmuslims. Countries that you listed have increasing Muslim populations so I am not surprised to see an increase in hatred towards jews. I think Israel would immediately jump to Russia for support to the detriment of America and the rest of the Middle East. Soon the USA will be a Pariah state too if it already isnt and its extension in the middle east that is the zionist entity will collapse. The US admin is full of inept unqualified fools. It is being driven into the ground by them. Its like how Hitler killed Hitler. /s Think about it how long can the US afford to be a hybrid kleptocracy and kakistocracy? Sorry this is an extremely misinformed take. Israel number 1 arms importer is Europe. The volume of trade only increases every year even during the war. I think most of the middle east states would be full pariah states if they didnt have so much petrodollars. No that’s not how the world works. The world is composed of many different factions. If the U.S. abandons Israel why wouldn’t Russia or another major power swoop in? Israel is unclearly armed with a strong army and advanced economy in a majorly important area next to oil producing regions and the Suez Canal. Additionally given their hostile area if you ally with them you can generally trust them. And you underestimate any political backlash to someone else jumping in. Foreign policy is often at the bottom of any public’s importance list. Yes they may voice support for a foreign policy issue but unless they are directly affected food housing and education matter more. And guess what Israel can provide a strong trading partner fresh water supply energy and security… Additionally if the public doesn’t care about foreign policy the elites due. And a lot of elites like Israel due to all the things I mentioned. Also for the Islamic world. It’s not unified. Amor of Sunnis strongly dislike Shia’s and Iran…. And Israel is the only nuclear armed power in the region that count counter a nuclear armed Iran… If the U.S. abandoned Israel. Middle eastern politics wouldn’t change much. The Sunni world would continue to take slow steps towards Israel to counter Iranian aggression and non Salafists would also move towards Israel due to the extremism in the Palestinian movement. It would be slow but it would be there. And another major power seeing an opportunity to gain major influence in the region over the Suez Canal and the flow of oil… would step in… Also the fall of the Iranian backed Shia regime in Syria means the ability for the gulf states to send an oil Pipeline through Syria and Turkey to Europe is a massive plus for Israel. Iran and Russia vehemently don’t want that to happen and Israel with their advanced airforce and nukes can gain alot of influence protecting or hampering that pipeline I think Israel or rather Bibi wouldnt pull the shit hes pulling without US support. Without US backing someone else would have backed Israel much as someone else has backed Israel before the US did. And arguably other countries are glad the US is giving Israel diplomatic cover so they wouldnt have to but Israel is the most legitimate country in the world in the sense that the world VOTED IN FAVOR of its existence Without the USA... Israel Intentionally or not Would have Conquered Egypt to the Nile Jordan Fully as well As Syria and Lebanon. Remember. Israel has Taken the Sinai twice *With no Help* from the USA more than Doubled her territory when under Embargo And only ever gave land due to political Effort from the USA. If the USA was not involved... Now. If you are talking what if the USA left Israel *now?* Israel foght this war just fine while having an Ammo Embargo from the USA which is a violation of the standing agreement BTW. Probably a big part of why Trumps Administration went on the whole *Fight Antisemitism.* They want to keep that agreement going with as little change/compansation as possible. Because While Americans are deluded and think that their taxes subsidize The entirety of the Israeli Economy... they really dont. barely a significant minority of the defence budget. And Israel gives the USA *way more* than anything Israel gets. Which is why... After Biden did that Embargo and PR ships that did nothing of substance... And *then* USAID turned out to have funded Israels enemies. Which is not a good Ally behaviour... Trump *really* wants that agreement to not be amended to add American obligations or reduce Israeli ones. Because again the USA *needs that allyship.* So that is why it us nor likely to happen. Now if the USA left Israel to dry like Ukraine? Israel is a key producer of Computer Chips that are necessary for *a lot* of tech Civilian and not civilian Industries in the USA and the rest of the west *need.* They can act all bitchy as they like. But if they could replace Israel in that capacity and many others. *they would do so ages ago.* They can *officially* badmouth Israel all they like. But that will never get *too far.* There’s a lot of imo misinformation here especially on us aid and how much you’re valuing it but there’s a super simple rebuttal to your point. If Israel were to lose the wests support countries like India China and Russia would most likely step in to fill that vacuum. India has a very close relationship with Israel and despite being a us ally Israel has decent relations with the other two less so with Russia though since the Ukraine war due to pressure from Biden admin. If the whole west shunned Israel China and Russia would jump at the opportunity most likely to gain a strong ally in region with advanced tech they could leverage for themselves. China even now is Israel’s second largest trade partner. I also think your account of the west is overblown. People may hate what Israel’s current government is doing and want to recognize a Palestinian state but none of these countries want Israel’s destruction like the Muslims do nor have they flown a full economic boycott besides maybe the far left who are losing power in the eu. that vote you listed was to redo the current deal not boycott and specifically to target settlers/military products. Wouldn’t be comparable to like saddams boycott. Overall if they lost the wests support it would be a big blow but not nearly the knockout you think and would free their hand even more to do whatever they wanted to Palestinians ironically since they’d have already lost support. I think just give Islam what they want to claim full control over the whole Middle East without any Jews Christians and Indians too do sanctions on India! because they oppress Pakistan. [removed] The world likes Israel’s weapons https//www.newsweek.com/israeldefenseexportsnewrecordgaza2080805 Israels Weapon Sales Break Record Despite Gaza Outrage Newsweek Morocco does the same thing in the west Sahara. Turkey does the same thing in Kurdistan and syria. Neither is a pariah. If Israel was Muslim literally No one would care. 1. Popular opinion does not always determine government direction. If we went by popular opinion the Gulf Nations and much of North Africa would be at war with the entire West. And I mean literally. 2. A lot of Israels legitimacy is from its ties to Europe not the United States. Heck Israel became and American ally only after Johnson came to power and in full during and after the Yom Kippur War. 3. Israel is the only nation in the region where both its government AND its people are pro West in the entire region. Everyone else either has a proWest but very hostile population or is hostile on both fronts. There is no true ally in the region to the Americans or Europeans because religious dogma and ideology and a sense of inferiority complex over the fact that Western civilization superseded the Islamic one and attempts to overcome it have failed trump any positive feelings that the region has towards the West. At one point Lebanon was on par with Israel as a true Western ally. That period was when Christians were the majority though. Because that meant that both the population and the government were proWestern. That is no longer the case today Nah almost the whole west loves/or is deathly afraid of Israel. They might make the odd statement against them for show yet otherwise back them to the hilt A diplomatic gap would form and another country would fill it right away to gain power in the middle east. Geopolitics is not about ethics. Doubtfull. Isreal is the key to the middle east at the moment. China India or Russia would be happy to jump into the void left by the US. Israel is past the point of no return.” the US isn’t just supporting Israel bc they have a soft spot for them they’re supporting them bc having a super strong military and nuclear presence in the Middle East is hugely beneficial. If the US cuts ties with Israel someone else would swoop in to reap the benefits the US previously got. Israel is incredibly powerful for their size their military especially their tech is next level Mossad is insanely skilled they have nuclear weapons and they’re one of the only politically stable countries in the Middle East that would be a reliable ally. They’ve got a decent amount to offer. So I think it’s highly likely that there would be countries willing to back them in exchange for some of those benefits. Particularly countries opposed to America who would view supporting Israel as a dig against America or countries like India who hugely support Israel already bc of their antiIslam stance. [removed] Yes this country” lives on credit. If the US pulled all their support... If they did that Russia or China would come in and support them to the same degree and Israel would probably be a lot worse to the Palestinians b/c of it. Israel is a nuclear armed state with the most i.e. only advanced military in the region and their economy is as innovative and productive as the US. Israel money and power and nothing is going to change that. A lot of the hate is driven by the fact that they are supported by America not in spite of it. There is no reason for the CCP to be crying at the UN about this. Their ally Ehtiopia did a blockade of Tigeay that killed 200k like 2 years ago and it got basically no coverage or outrage. Iran used to be Israel closest ally until their government became principally AntiAmerican for the sake of it. Europe has never really supported Israel since their empires disintigrated theyd rather just be on the Arabs good side and they know the US will stick up for Israel so it doesnt matter that they vote against them at the UN btw the UN doesnt matter the SC voted for a ceasefire like 2 years ago. I have never understood this conundrum Israel We must exist as a safe place for Jews to flee to if the western world turns against them.” Also Israel We can’t exist without continued military support and financial investment from the western world.” Israel would totally be fucked without us backing! Or they would learn not be arrogant and aggressive! And now committing war crimes on the Palestinian civilians. Hamas committed 1000 crimes on Israel! Israel has murdered 70.000 55.000 being children. I grew up in uk and every year we remember the holocaust! Never again!? Well of all the nations in the world Israel is the one that is repeating the holocaust on Palestinian children! Are their soldiers not brave enough to in on foot and kill Hamas terrorists face to face ?! Why do the bomb school and hospital! They say hamas is hiding underneath the buildings! Maybe so ! But why are they now blocking aid ? ! To starve the innocent! Israeli soldiers and government are all going to hell ! It would be a pariah state until those country citizens start asking where did all my cancer meds go? why do I no longer have good technology? why has my army started losing?. Israel is a medical technology and arms powerhouse. Any country that stops working with them or implements BDS will learn the hard way what they are missing and their people will demand that relationship back. During the Cold War Israel chose to buddy up” with the US instead of Russia. Ever since then Israel has been part of the US sphere of influence. Therefore aligned itself against enemies of US namely Russia who has been undermining Israel for decades now funneling money through Iran to Hamas Hezbollah etc. to be clear I don’t believe Israel is a pariah state but you could make the case that a lot of the world has turned against it. Basically my point is that it’s not without the US support but it’s also due in part to the support of US that Israel finds itself in a pickle sort of a middle man between super powers not to mention surrounded by jihadist terrorists hell bent on Israel’s destruction. Israel has done what any other country on the planet would do if hundreds of their civilians were kidnapped and murdered by a neighboring region which vowed to continue carrying out such attacks in the future. The violence would end tomorrow if Hamas stopped attacking but they won’t and so too will Israel continue to defend itself. Nothing about that makes them a pariah state any more than the U.S. was when they bombed Tokyo after being attacked at Pearl Harbor or the bombing of Dresden after Nazi Germany’s aggression toward other European countries. Every country has a right to defend itself after being attacked and Israel is no different. You have it backwards. Israel has many enemies and is hated because the US supports it. Iran and other middle eastern countries see Israel as a US vassal state and hate Israel because of all the things the US and the west did to the Middle East. The US and Europe have been meddling in the U.S. long before Israel existed and as a result middle eastern countries see Israel as a western colony. In 1948 Israel had the opportunity to join the USSR side against the U.S. had they done so there would be no PLO and Israel would be another poor middle eastern country. Just because antisemitism is popular and on the rise doesn’t make it right. Most of the world thought the world was flat for centuries some idiots still do until we learned better. The Muslims that want to destroy Israel are not being Muslim. The reason the West supports Israel is because it is the right thing to do. They are a successful democracy that supports the rights of its citizens unlike most of its neighbouring countries. This is why the surrounding Muslim countries hate Israel. Because they are successful and just. I disagree. I don’t think that Israel would be a pariah state if the US pulled support. I think it would be a mass graveyard and smoking ruin. I think many of its neighbors would use it to hold a big ol proxy war amongst themselves like they’ve done since biblical times — and like they do over Gaza. It would not go well for anyone living in or near Israel. That includes the Palestinians. They would suffer pretty badly too. Maybe not as badly as they are right now but it wouldn’t be great. [removed] America and Europe were not originally on Israel’s side. As soon as things looked a little dicey Britain was ready to simply walk out and let the Israelis be wiped out. America only started supporting Israel when the Israelis proved they could do more than stand in their own two feet. Criticize Israel all you like plenty to talk about there. But let’s not get confused and label them a weak state being propped up with an imbalance of power. It’s just not accurate. Without US leverage Israel would do whatever it deemed necessary using overwhelming force. Without the support of mealymouthed white rich women and college students Palestinians would never engage in terrorism with widespread abandon as they do now. Europe is still generally supportive of Israel. Some have put out words but words are not the same as concrete actions. Simply reviewing a trade deal to appease the public is not a concrete action. My country for example the UK is still very much supportive of Israel in terms of its actions of exporting arms for example. The government defended selling F35s to Israel because suspending those sales would cause a profound impact on international peace and security. You might mean the West but Israel will always be friends with India. Israel also has more friends in the Middle East itself. So it would never be the entire world. Israel has a relatively and absolutely high number of tech startups as well as advanced cybersecurity advanced antimissile and drone systems and advanced agricultural and water filtering technology. If the West is not interested in these things maybe China and Russia are. The saying goes ‘the enemy of my enemy is my friend’. I think that a lot of Arab states are happy to sit back and let them do the dirty work. This war is about power and money on all sides be it Israel or Hamas. Neither care about how much collateral damage there is. Thats it really. Meanwhile states like Jordan breath a sigh of relief as the last time they welcomed Palestinians it didnt end well. At this time the most effective way to enact or repeal gun control in the USA is on the state level Author ParakeetLover2024Post Text Due to a variety of factors such as willing or unwilling action/inaction from Congress and the Supreme Court states can write or repeal many different gun control laws. Due to the Senate filibuster and budget reconciliation bill rules Congress has basically done nothing about the gun control issue. The Supreme Court will take years to hear certain 2A cases or theyve had the opportunity to hear cases about certain 2A issues for the past decade or so but keep kicking the can down the road. So many liberal states pass a lot of gun control measures knowing it will be years before it is heard at the Supreme Court or it may never be heard at all. Because of this liberal states enact a bunch of de facto and de jure gun control measures and if one of those measures is struck down by the Supreme Court several more measures will pop up in its place that basically do the same thing as the measure that was struck down. On the other hand state legislatures once they have a large enough majority can pass gun laws in the blink of an eye in comparison to the snails pace that the federal government operates at gun law wise. Its fascinating but also a little frustrating that there can be so much difference between liberal states and conservative states regarding gun laws. Lets take two examples from states that are right next to each other Arizona and California. Arizona does not require a permit to conceal or open carry a gun in public no permit needed to purchase a gun no firearm registration requirement no assault weapons ban no mag capacity restrictions no NFA weapon restrictions no waiting periods no background checks for private sales no red flag laws no gun purchase limits and no background checks to purchase ammunition. However all of the gun control laws that I mentioned Arizona doesnt have California does have. Sure. But the only issue here is let’s say 15 states pass magazines capacity laws. The SCOTUS only has to rule on one of them saying that those are unconstitutional and all of those states are effected. Where was several states that were may issue for concealed carry permits until someone challenged NY on the matter and won now all 50 states are will issue when it comes to concealed carry permits. You say they can just make more laws that do essentially the same thing if one gets struck down but that’s only half true. NYC tried to declare practically every public space a sensitive area so you couldn’t carry a firearm there. That wasn’t even challenged by any civilian the SCOTUS just told them that they couldn’t do that as soon as NYC announced it. Illinois has strict gun control Indiana and Missouri dont. The vast majority of Illinois residents leave near the Indiana border and can go there and back in an afternoon…. Also the SC and federal government can override states rights… Gun control legislation at the state level can never be very effective. My state has relatively strict gun control but I could drive less than an hour to a state with extremely relaxed gun control and smuggle the gun into my strict state. Its trivially easy. Thats why truly effective gun control can only be done at a national level. There just isnt a practical way for strict states to crack down on smuggling from relaxed states. States cant make laws that go against the constitution and the 5 maga guys on SCOTUS get to decide what the constitution says. Lets say tomorrow all guns are banned in the US. There are like 12 firearms per person that we know of good luck collecting all of them. I feel like a lot of these debates equate to trying to put out a forest fire by pissing on it. Musks publicist is trying to change his image There are a ton of posts about Musk arguing with Trump. I dont buy it at all. He wore a hat with Trump did nothing wrong and dumped tons of money into PACs and republicanled efforts to turn out their voters in the last election. His canceling of USAID cutting $9 million from PEPFAR and slashing other government funded departments will lead to unnecessary deaths and that is blood on his hands. This latest rift between Trump and Musk is just Musk trying to rehabilitate his image using weak words and tons of money to publicize on Reddit and hell have no problem using tons more of his money to further try and rehabilitate his image in other ways. I think the attempt to rehabiliate his image is genuine in the sense that he probably really does blame Trump for the hits his reputation has taken since aligning with him and getting involved in DOGE. Hes certainly not going to blame it on himself for choosing to support Trump his massive ego wouldnt allow it. Nor would Trumps massive ego allow Musk to disagree with him merely as a publicity stunt merely as a show for Musks benefit only. Hes also likely bipolar and uses Ketamine and recreational drugs regularly. So...is it so hard to believe hed suddenly get super negative about the administration hes worked with for months? Blood on his hands. JHC man. Lets tamp down the rhetoric and dramatics a bit here. I think hes been pretty consistent on being against Govt waste from the getgo Hasn’t his position been pretty clear from the beginning? He believes the government is spending too much money so has been campaigning to slash it similar to how he’s a big fan of Argentinian Milei and said the US should adopt his model. Isn’t it much more likely that he’s just against government spending? You’re overcomplicating and adding conspiracy to a fairly straightforward issue. Musk was brought into the White House to cut federal spending. He made an ass out of himself on multiple occasions and Trump saw that it hurt his own reputation having Elon so close by. Elon butted heads with members of Trump’s cabinet who were less disposable. That caused a rift and Elon was likely asked/told to leave the administration. Now that he’s not in the administration he sees a massive spending bill being pushed which is antithetical to what he was brought into the government to do so he’s speaking out against it. None of these actions are out of line for the known personality traits of Trump or Musk and it doesn’t require this conspiracy of a secret publicist pulling the strings. This rift has nothing to do with PR or image. It very obviously the result of crony capitalism failing to work for Elon in the way he expected. Elon donated a boatload of money to Trump‘s campaign to get Trump elected with the expectation that Trump’s administration would enact policies and pass laws favorable to Elon’s companies. The Big beautiful bill” undercuts both Elon’s efforts with DOGE by being a pork filled mess *and* directly harms Tesla by way of reducing EV incentives. If the BBB had kept the EV incentives and Trump had given Space X a bunch of contracts Elon would be singing a different tune image be damned. While I agree with you 99% there are two points that are consistent * He supported DeSantis in the GOP primary * Hes angry about the loss of EV tax credits The final message is that hes a narcissistic petty person who switched to the GOP because the Dems were launching investigations into him. He has no principles or loyalties except to himself. This is clearly just him trying to salvage his reputation as you know so that he can further his own interests. I think your argument here is that Musk is fundamentally onboard the Trump train but wants to save his fortune and therefore needs to rehabilitate his image and that this is what he is doing with the help from professional public relations. First I think the strongest counterweight to this is that it is not a good strategy. Trump will have to retaliate and he has the levers of government at his disposal. If its a farce it will still look like Trump is weak if he doesnt take action. It is also destructive to the right. The Elon fandom alt right techno fascists have an uncomfortable alliance with the populist anti immigration white supremacists already. Driving a wedge in between camp Elon and camp Trump is destructive to the project. Secondly one of the reasons most billionaires are seen as nice and Elon is so divisive is because he doesnt believe in PR. He fired the whole PR department at Tesla. Thirdly all the evidence points to Musk being inept at politics and no evidence to the contrary. He is bad at communication bad at building support bad at negotiating with other politicians bad at selling his program to the public and bad at knowing when he is being taken for a ride. All of that would have to change suddenly which is more unlikely than Musk just being himself ignorant narcissistic myopic and impulsive. Musk’s positions have been consistent. He’s always been profree trade and the like. He thought Trump would be controllable or at the very least comparable to his first time. Musk was never going to support the tariffs. They threaten his business and he’s ideologically opposed. Then Trump proposes an unsustainable spending spree. He tried to get Trump to stop Trump ignored him he got mad and left. He doesnt have a publicist. Tesla famously doesnt even have a PR department and only recently started running ads due to competition. This latest rift between Trump and Musk is just Musk trying to rehabilitate his image It was obvious to me that he and Trump werent going to last long in the first place. Trump demands absolute loyalty while Musk has loyalty to no one. Musk has his own opinions and he is famous for speaking those publicly regardless of what anyone thinks including Trump. So now for like the fifth time in the last several years Musk has come out publicly against deficit spending and now its Trumps big beautiful deficit spending bill so Trump is offended. Theres your rift. I think youre right that hes trying to rehabilitate his image but youre wrong in that hes doing it to gain favour from leftists or people who were against DOGE etc. He thinks all the spending cuts havent gone far enough not that they are too much I think its better to reach for the simplest solution. Id like to list some supporting facts first 1. Both Trump and Musk are powerful men with big egoes who are used to not having to obey or be deferential to others. 2. There can only be one big man. Guys with big egoes inevitably clash. 3. Musk donated a lot of money to trumps reelection and likely thinks he should get something for it. 4. Trump thinks his victory was due to his own special unique genius. 5. Trump and the Republican Party in general have pursued many policies which would be seriously damaging to Musks wealth while doing nothing much at all about what Musk ideologically cares about shrinking government and cutting the deficit. It would seem then to me that the simplest explanation is that both men cant tolerate the ego of the other and that Musk is getting buyers remorse as his investment seems to have not bought him any of what he wanted. He thought hed be the power behind the throne but hes found out hes just a chump that Trump no longer has any need for. [removed] Occams razor suggests we should first eliminate the likelihood that the falling out between Donald Trump and Elon Musk is just two narcissists doing what narcissists inevitably do this is something many were predicting would happen when Musk allied himself with Trump. Many people thought he would take the heat for the unpopular cuts DOGE was taking—and in exchange his businesses competitors would be impacted worse or hed still get juicy government contracts or some other gain. When he doesnt have the topdown control in Washington as he has with his businesses as CEO people assumed politically hed be outmaneuvered—if you can call unforced errors being outmaneuvered—chewed up and spit out—perhaps because of his selfdisclosed Aspergers syndrome but also because he doesnt seem to ever had to learn the empathy to work with people at a more peer level. Yes it could all be spectacle—pro wrestling *panem et circenses*—but Musk is also characteristically impulsive and impetuous prone to pick inexpedient fights as against Vernon Unsworth—what publicist would have greenlit that? You cant get there from here. Musk alienated liberals and progressives when he went all in on Trump those people probably wont start buying Teslas again any time soon. If he alienates MAGA too those people will also stop buying Teslas. He may believe its clowns to the left of him and jokers to the right but if he becomes a party of one he wont be advancing his stated goals of getting humanity to Mars building out an allEV future etc. and in the short term it cant be good for business either. He understands physical laws constrains the rockets SpaceX builds but itll take some wisdom to understand there are laws of human society and interaction likewise constraining even the richest actions that alienate trust that cannot be easily reearned and compromises to maintain alliances. A spat with Trump isnt enough to rebuild that trust with liberals after DOGE but has anyone checked in whether Marco Rubio is feeling traumatized with Mommy and Daddy fighting? Instead it takes a certain level of real sacrifice to show sincerity and change. Musk could have had one legacy and then he could have had another but right now it looks like hes squandered those. I wouldnt think hed want that but Im not him but what I do know is You cant get there from here. This makes zero sense. No one left of center is going to embrace Musk after he showed his proverbial ass to the world in the last election. Pissing off people on the right just means that *no one* supports him anymore. I think if you are going to take a simple position on what musk is up to it’s kind of obvious. Firstly Musk is proud and Trump is proud. Trump has this big bill he wants as his legacy with a ton of shit in it. Namely major tax cuts for all tax brackets. Tax cuts on OT and Tips and Social Security. Cuts to corporations and poor people alike. Sounds pretty good but if you’re going to reduce your revenue you need to also reduce your expenditure. Afaik this big bill doesn’t include any cost cutting measures to go along with the revenue slashing. Musks whole deal was to cut spending it was going to be his big contribution. Trump didn’t include any of that stuff in the bill and musk was like yo what the hell? This is my whole thing and we aren’t going to do it?”. Musk feels as if he is being played as a fool for PR and Trump doesn’t want to hear Musk’s advice. The two fallout and here we are. I feel like this is probably the most likely scenario. Big egos clashed and that’s all she wrote. I think youre mistaken in assuming that Musk initiated this. Musks visibility made his popularity crater even among conservatives yes but that is as much if not more reason for Trump to kick him to the curb as for him to bail. Hes been gradually pushed out of the administration as his poll numbers tanked which wouldnt have been his doing. There was talk of him being forced out over a month ago. Thats before we get to the physical fight that happened when he was finally booted. All of that implies that Musk was not the one who initiated the split. Then theres the fact that this is making him look *worse.* He looks like hes reacting out of spite and anything that he reveals raises the question of why he was ok with being involved with the people the revelation was about until he got thrown out. A professional publicists advice probably wouldve been to lay low for a while instead of starting a huge fight with the guy your only remaining favorable demographics worship. Then theres the fact that Musk doesnt appears to think he knows better than publicists. His image decisions are simply too insane to be suggested by a publicist. What publicist would ok him livestreaming a game that he didnt know how to play where hed paid someone to boost his character? That lost him huge amounts of respect among the particular kind of terminally online right wing gamer who have always been his base. What publicist would ok anything he has ever tweeted? No publicist would be able to keep him on a leash either he tweets constantly usually too quickly to have run anything by anyone. There would be no way to keep him on message which would make a publicists job impossible. I agree with you that he hasnt sincerely changed his ideology but I think him backlashing against Trump is adequately explained by personal spite for being used and discarded remembering the whole thing with the trapped children and the submarine and that any pragmatic belief that turning on him will restore Musks popularity is coming from Musk himself and is not consistent with reality. I dont think he ever liked Trump or thought he was good for the *country*. He saw an opportunity to *use* Trump to help *himself*. Nothing more. Now he sees an opportunity to do the same thing again for the same reason. Who is that supposed to convince? I doubt liberals are going to forget his involvement that quickly especially in light of all the other problematic views and behavior he engages in. And it certainly isn’t going to help him with MAGA. Trump is right now in charge of a bunch of government contracts that Musk relies on which he is currently threatening. That’s not a very calculated business decision. With both Musk and Trump the most likely and consistently right answer is that they are both just extremely volatile narcissists with insatiable egos. Throw in a little drug abuse and it’s nothing is surprising. There is no elaborate strategy and there doesn’t appear to be anyone in charge of their tweets other than them well Trump probably does have a ghost writer and his White House spindoctor/spokesperson but it’s pretty obvious when it’s himself writing. Many people predicted this btw. It was a match made out of self interest and it fell apart as quickly. At some point they were going to disagree and that’s all it took. I’m not sure what exactly but clearly something happened behind the scenes to cause Musks awkward departure and now he is upset. Nothing about Trumps presidency has been a surprise so it can’t be that Musk was actually blindsided. The only surprising thing is perhaps the chance that Musk actually believes his own bullshit. His criticisms of Trump are surprisingly on point. But based on the things he targeted with doge and everything else he is clearly still a far right proponent. That said I’m still suspicious there is some sort of ulterior motive here…but only because I don’t trust a word either of them say. It’s possible that Musk knows about an imminent Trump scandal and is trying to distance himself. If theyre trying to rehab his image theyre doing a terrible job. No one believes hes suddenly liberal just that hes throwing a temper tantrum because he isnt the favorite boy anymore. Wouldn’t be surprised if the whole thing was agreed upon in advance. Even the Epstein files tweet to prompt MAGA to get used to defending the DJT/Epstein relationship. Disagreeing with Trump on this one thing wont do anything to rehabilitate his image. People do not forgive or forget. There are a ton of posts about Musk arguing with Trump. I dont buy it at all. He wore a hat with Trump did nothing wrong and dumped tons of money into PACs and republicanled efforts to turn out their voters in the last election. His canceling of USAID cutting $9 million from PEPFAR and slashing other government funded departments will lead to unnecessary deaths and that is blood on his hands. This latest rift between Trump and Musk is just Musk trying to rehabilitate his image using weak words and tons of money to publicize on Reddit and hell have no problem using tons more of his money to further try and rehabilitate his image in other ways The rift between the two is genuine. It began with H1Bs and ended with Trumps lack of support for electric and in general anything related to climate change. Trumps lack of support for spacerelated stuff is also a problem because Musk wants to get to Mars and Trump is slashing Nasas budget. Their goals temporarily aligned to take down USAID primarily but beyond that they dont have much in common. Musk is a technologist and Trump is a populist. It is very hard to fit both of those under one umbrella. I suspect Musk wanted funding for Mars colonization which would cost probably 25 trillion. The US military has an endless supply of adventurous men willing to go to the most remote and inhospitable places on Earth and I suspect Musk wanted to tap into that as well. As soon as Trump started cutting Nasa Musk probably knew any mars plans were cooked. I 1000% agree with this post. Musk saw the disaster that the big beautiful bill was and said I gotta cut ties if I wanna have some semblance of a positive legacy after Im dead. The Trump era will 1000% go down in history as the greatest transferral of wealth from bottom 99.9% straight to the elites. It will also go down as when church rose to prominence to of equal or greater importance than the federal government in peoples lives. when his trickle down policies start to turn results in a few years well see a continuing fading of a middle class major concentration of all appreciable assets into the elites and a new reliance on free church run services to manage the masses who have nothing. To survive more people at the bottom will see the value in trading in their soul for food/shelter/security in the short term. The church is and always have been ready for this barter. Theyre designed for it. Its probably happened 1 million times historically and this is how american freedoms become more Christian centric. This is what project 2025 was designed for shrink the federal infrastructure support system that offered stability OUTSIDE the church and replace it with theocratic infrastructure support system that COME WITH caveats. Musk sees this in the writing and starts to see how he played into it and now doesnt like it. It’s probably not the case. Musk gets overly fixated on specific issues he views as existential”. Previously it was making us an interplanetary species then it was things like the declining birth rate or the woke mind virus”. He has done pretty drastic things during his focus on each of these issues such as starting a space exploration company and then having as much children as possible regardless if he was in a monogamous relationship or not. I think over this last year has been fixated on the US deficits and thinks he is actually in the hero role for doing what he thinks he can to address it. Trump just wants his tax cuts regardless of how much it adds to the deficit and this gets in the way of Elon’s fixation. I think is just a case of a politically naive erratic rich guy with poor social skills not getting his way and taking out his frustration the only way he knows how which is through his social media trolling. Musk would have toned down his rhetoric and have been much more covert in his support or involvement with the Trump Administration if he had any interests in trying to win back his left leaning customer base in the future. He could’ve easily have kept the Tesla selling point on the climate change messaging while still giving the Trump campaign massive amounts of money but Elon just doesn’t know how to be subtle. Elon Musks psychology is simple. He does whatever he thinks will gain him positive attention and he gets extremely pissy when things dont go his way. MAGA gained him positive attention from the right for a while and as long as it benefitted him overall he was pleased with that in a childish way. Once his profits started tanking hard *and* Trump essentially made all of his DOGE work pointless with the bloated BBB that was plenty to cause him to throw a tantrum. Now hes no longer getting positive attention from the right and hes lost a ton of money so he is of course now antiTrump. I dont think theres a lot of PR spin going on there. Ive been saying for years that our best bet is to manipulate him into supporting left wing causes with the ridiculous amount of money he has and I think this shift really proves how easy it is. It’s not his publicist. No publicist in a billion years would tell him to angrily demand they defund MORE services. Idk if this was posted before or after the latest news but Musk just tweeted that Trmp was in the 3pstein logs. It would be impossible for Musk to rehabilitate his image by dropping news like that hes already hated by a lot of people for the salute plus other things now hell be hated by Trmp supporters bc this is a huge thing to accuse someone of and hell be further hated by other people bc if this is true why did he align himself with someone whos associated with 3pstein. This isnt 4D chess this is a temper tantrum bc he didnt get his way Musk didnt like something about the Big Beautiful Bill and now that its out hes doing everything to push Trmp down. Trump and Musk were always going to have a falling out. Maybe he is using a publicist but it’s not the reason. If you look at both of their social media posts and look at how they work they both need to be 1. right all the time. 2. in charge 3 have noone dispute point 1 and 2 And historically how they both deal with dissenters is to shout them into submission via social media working their followers up as well . So the only way that this fight in public could have been avoided was if they agreed on everything all the time. As soon as there was little problem it meant 3 kicked in resulting in public and personal attacks. In short it was inevitable. I agree. I think the Elon Trump divorce is a massive psyop. There are a lot of reasons why they are doing it. First being that Trump doesnt actually want tax cuts. He does want the popularity of trying to do them but he doesnt want to actually do them. That is also why he wants ONE big beautiful bill. With one massive bill there will always be something to debate. This would result in the tax cuts not passing. Also Elon also benefits by getting as you said some of his reputation back among affluent liberals. Also Elon has had massive crash outs before and this one definitely doesnt fit the way Elon has a crash out. Same goes for Trump. The far far simpler answer Musk lost face and is pissed Trump was siding with cabinet members over him. Bessent reportedly excoriated Musk and DOGE in a meeting questioning his absurd promise to save a trillion dollars and pointing out DOGE has been a shit show and embarrassed Trump at the State of the Union with the people over 150 are getting social security! bit as it turned out those people in the system were just artifacts and no money went to those accounts. Musk reportedly physically shoved Bessent after this. Trump backed Bessent. Its been widely reported everyone in Trumps orbit quickly grew tired of Musk and did not want him around any longer. Id add too Elons entire Shtick with DOGE was cutting spending it also simply tracks hed trash a massive spending bill that raises the debt ceiling by trillions. Part of the bill also cuts EV credits which Musk would also see as a betrayal. I find it difficult to believe going against one spending bill is a ploy to rehab his image. I cant imagine a publicist trying to rehab his image would also instruct Elon to call Trump ungrateful and claim the GOP only won the presidency and the senate because of his donations. Those do not help him with any demo. We’ll keep you at the board of tesla if you change your image Elon Musk was granted a tenure for 130 days in the White House. He was hoping to have a permanent seat but Trump kicked his ass out so now he’s throwing a tantrum. He wants Trump out so he’s replaced with JD Vance who was essentially installed as a candidate by big tech influencers such as Curtis Yarvin and Peter Thiel. Elon believes he would then gain power and influence over the white house again under JD Vance. its highly unlikely that is the purpose because of two reasons. one he brought up epsteins connection to trump. two is he is publicly speaking against the big bill. if it was to rehabilitate he would at least choose after the bills pass/fail to criticize trump. what i think happened was elon got punched in the face by one of trumps goonscabinet not security and nobody gave a shit and elons vagina got hurt. If you were a publicist attempting to repair the image of someone associated with an incredibly divisive politician would you advise them to a have a public fight with said politician thus potentially alienating their supporters in return for possibly grabbing a small slice of his opponents Or b keep out of politics and be visibly seen supporting causes deap to oppponents of the politician. ? I think this is bigger than that. I think the technocrats are beginning their soft coup. There have been recent stories about Trumps cognitive declinewhich i believe was already an issue well before this add Elon shifting away from him. I think theyve used Trump to get their guy close to power now they will try to get rid of the TrumpMaga branch of the executive branch The simpler explanation is perhaps the best one when it comes to these two. Narcissists always try to undermine each other even while sharing a common goal. Theyre ruled by insecurity not smarts. If an unstoppable superiority complex meets an immovable one it wont be navigated with reason. Theyll collide and what is most certiain is the collateral damage that ensues. Idk man I think its possible he has certain very stupid political convictions and now that he cant pursue them hes said fuck it and burning everything down. Like he does not benefit at all from cutting pepfar. Like its pennies in the grand scheme of things and most people have no clue that it exists. He did it because he cares I think they are probably arguing probably have been this whole time. Both men are egomaniacal selfaggrandizing and not used to hearing no. People with those kinds of personalities often clash. It doesnt mean Elon has changed political sides or become a good person. Hes still Elon Musk hes just fighting with Trump. Musk’s rift with Trump is just about Elons fragile ego getting hurt. His money policies and past actions all point to a manipulative sociopath trying to preserve the image of power and superiority. A sociopath’s primary concern is selfinterest and selfimage. If this was a PR stunt it would not go this far. I think youre giving an erratic ketamine addict too much credit for actually having a strategy. If you drill down on what hes said in the last few days it adds up to Ive known for years that Donald Trump was a pedophile who hung around with Jeffrey Epstein and I spent half a billion dollars getting him elected. While I do believe that Musk is trying to capitalize on this to rehabilitate his reputation I do think the division between the two of them is real. They both have such massive egos and are both fairly unstable I’m frankly more surprised that the two of them managed to stick together as long as they have. Aspergers folk like Musk just say what they think and expect honesty from others. Machiavellians like Trump are more calculating. Both are used to deference from subordinates. This blow up flows directly then both of them lacking the willingness to adapt to the other’s communication style. I think it’s not staged in any way. They’re both enormously catty. Remember when Elon called that guy a pedophile during the rescue of those boys stuck in a cave? I think musk would love to rehab his image I just don’t think this is in any way a careful or planned thing. Im not going to forgive him for the damage he has done to this country so quickly. Im not stupid enough to have a quick repentance session convince me that Musk is one of the of the worst people on this planet. I will have nothing to do with him or anything he is connected to. I think something went sour with him and his drug use leading to Trump axing him and him causing the rant. In a lot of these news stories it makes it seem like Elon initiated the end of their friendship when I kind of doubt that is the case knowing the leech he is. Im a conservative and i was thinking the same thing its so blatanlty obvious that elon was like oh shit im losing money so they start blasting to outside sources that trump and him are through. If they really were they would just do it and not tell everyone He already called for trumps impeachment and for jd to take over. He isnt even trying to pander to leftists here. He just has an easier dumbass to control lined up for the sit and the only thing he needs to do it get rid of trump This is just bullshit synthetic drama. Nobodys getting hurt nobodys losing real money power or privilege. I dont know why Musk and Trump are bitch fighting but for sure its entertainment not conflict. Ive heard that trumps big beautiful bill has stuff in it cutting federal credits for EV. Apparently this would absolutely tank Tesla overnight. But I havent read into this so dont take my word for it I think a simpler explanation is that previously he and Trump were against the same thing. They aligned on negatives. Now Trump is trying to do positive things and hes finding they no longer align. I lean towards theater too I mean that’s fairly obvious considering how on board with the whole program he looked a couple months ago now that he’s been ousted he’s going full 180 against Trump seemingly. I would agree if it was standard criticism but he’s doing personal attacks like the whole Epstein thing. No publicist would recommend calling the sitting president a pedo. There are his followers and there is everyone else. Hes shown his face fundamentally and I dont think people will change camps beyond this point. I believe they had a real spat. I also believe Elon thinks he can win back the liberals that used to buy his cars by publicly criticizing Trump. The dude ruined millions of peoples lives in a few short months with no remorse whatsoever. Do NOT let this piece of shit get away with it. He really does seem negative on Trump now. Why is that hard to believe? They dont have interests that align to well at this point. But is this really a strategy for that? He wont win back anyone he lost and risks losing from the MAGA end now too. Arguing with the president is only recuperative if the president has like Bush 2006 approval ratings. His image will never be revitalized. Hes doing this because hes a giant egomaniac just like Trump. Fuck them all Ya i disagree. I doubt elon was like what if i called you a pedophile and trump was like sure! [removed] Eh I look at it as Stalin and Trotsky. One of them is suddenly not going to be a problem. Youre ascribing too much thought behind men who have only ever acted purely from id. It might be kayfabe but I dont know why a publicist would be in charge of it lol. Weak words? I think Elons tweet 20 minutes after you posted this prove otherwise. I was with you until then Nothing is going to change Musk’s brand as the world’s richest fascist. You find it hard to believe that two people with egos that big are clashing? His image is fuxked forever. No publicist is ever going to change that. I think he thought him and Trump were friends but Trump kinda used him Isnt the whole point of a publicist to change ones image? Well duh this is typical politics. Same as Newsom suddenly pandering to right wing interests. It’s nothing new. These way posted three hours ago. How things change eh he’s done this flip flop plenty of times before How many people that have left Trumps circle are on positive terms with him? The only people that stick around are either subservient true believers like Navarro or people that are willing to do anything including stroking Trumps ego at all times and agreeing with all of his stupid policies because it suits their political goals like Miller. Musk has too much ego to fall into either of those categories and he also lashes out at anyone that distances themselves from him. He called a cave diver a pedophile for saying that his sub idea was a bad one. This falling out was inevitable as was its messiness. He was antitrump until about 2 years ago. Elon’s gone. DOGE isn’t. [removed] Golf should be abolished Golf courses wreak disproportionate environmental destruction and social harm all to maintain leisure for the wealthy. Covering vast tracts—often 100–200 acres per 18hole setup—they require colossal amounts of water global use is around 2.5 billion gallons daily with U.S. courses alone using over 2 billion gallons a day ￼. These green expanses frequently rely on scarce freshwater and chemicalintensive irrigation. One course in Utah uses 38 million gallons daily ￼—enough to fill nearly 58 Olympicsized pools. Then there’s chemical runoff pesticides and fertilizers seep into soil and waterways triggering algae blooms and decimating aquatic life ￼. On fairways alone sometimes up to 1500 kg of fertilizer is used annually with much leaching into ecosystems polluting drinking water and threatening biodiversity ￼. The land clearance and habitat destruction further fragment ecosystems and erode soil trampling local wildlife to cater to a sport primarily enjoyed by an elite minority ￼. Beyond the ecological toll golf’s existence deepens property inequality. Courses often sit wrapped in highend development inflating local property values and pricing out regular residents ￼. In places like Brazil farms and natural habitat were bulldozed to make way for golf estates worsening housing shortages and social inequities. My final argument is that well mini golf exists and it’s 10 times more fun and less damaging to the environment! The only real issue here is the water they use and even that is only an issue in certain places. Otherwise they’re basically a big park. It’s a great way for older people to get outside and get some exercise it’s a great social outlet it’s just a fun activity that pretty much anybody can do at any age fitness and skill level. And it’s not true that it’s just for the wealthy anymore. Yes there are still very selective elitist clubs but that’s not the norm anymore. There are lots of public courses and cheaper more inclusive private clubs now. And as far as your property value argument it helps just as many people as it hurts. Owning a home or land next to a golf course is great for the value and often helps the local residents. Golf is definitely not just for the wealthy. In just about any city you can find a round thats the same price as going to a movie or out to a cheaper end dinner. Also the majority of courses in peak golf areas FL CA Carolinas etc are self sustaining from a water perspective. They are not pulling from city water but from their own lakes and ponds. Obviously some desert courses are not this case and that may be a different discussion. Though many of those help drive tourism and the local economy. Why does it need to be abolished? Why dont we just have a water tax on golf courses to offset environmental damage? [deleted] Why just specifically golf courses and not any other large area developed for exclusively entertainment Would say the same about wearing jeans or the consult of red meat? Those also cause large environmental impact and can be easily replaced by other clothes/foods Public golf courses can be affordable for middleclass people. Its not just a rich persons sport. Also many golf courses are irrigated with greywater. Im not a golfer but Im not opposed to sports. All of these arguments can be applied to farms as well Maybe in Southern California or Arizona but in the midwest golf courses are plentiful and affordable for pretty much anyone. I can golf 18 holes for $25 after 4pm. Thats not bad for 4 hours of entertainment. Many municipal courses are run on a surplus by local governments. Theres plenty of land its.not like its taking it away from potential residential development. The golf season lasts more or less from mid April / early may to late October. Snowmelt + frequent rains from April to late June. July and august are fairly dry and September October rain picks up again. It doesnt require a ton of excess water to irrigate courses. Im sure most use wells and essentially recycle the water directly beneath them. The courses basically play right into nature they arent paving over wetlands with concrete. Some of the course cut through or around native growth forests. Lots of the courses around my house are populated by trees that are older than the course. Sure pesticides can be an issue but if these were developed for real estate the outcomes for nature would be far worse. One course in Utah uses 38 million gallons daily ￼—enough to fill nearly 58 Olympicsized pools. Then there’s chemical runoff pesticides and fertilizers seep into soil and waterways triggering algae blooms and decimating aquatic life ￼ Your really shouldnt be cherry picking bad actors to make your point. Their is also a course on Marthas Vinyard that dosent use pesticide or herbicide. Courses are also regulated by the EPA and local departments of environmental quality. If they cause algae blooms they are fined. To apply pesticide they are required to have a liscense. Your probably going to have more problems with herbicide and pesticide by general consumers using to much and disposing of it incorrectly. You also do not need to be rich to play golf. Tons of people play that arent even middle class. You can get a cheap set of second hand clubs and go to smaller local courses for relatively cheap especially if you consider $/hr of recreational time. These green expanses frequently rely on scarce freshwater and chemicalintensive irrigation. Frequently is subjective I guess. It would be more appropriate to say sometimes. Also what is chemical intensive irrigation? Water is a chemical so is that what you mean? Or are you complaining about pesticides again? ￼. What is this? Im in Canada but here at least regular people golf. Its not a sport reserved for the wealthy. Theres also no shortage of water or space for these courses to exist. To further that in terms of land development golf courses are pretty damn friendly towards local wildlife. Even if it is artificial nature animals do very much enjoy it in comparison to actual city. leisure for the wealthy You should go visit a golf course sometime. Most of them are full of just regular run of the mill people. If the courses didnt exist then there would be just more estates. Your argument concerning pushing out poorer people doesnt hold water. The golf course is added as a benefit not the main reason for development. Removing the courses wouldnt yield smaller developments. Just developments without a gold course. The only people who have this view are people who have never stepped foot on a golf course in their life and are just on a crusade against something they don’t like or understand There are so many other activities and land uses that are more environmentally damaging and use vast amounts resources Cash crops that aren’t essential like tea coffee tobacco cocoa palm oil crops for all alcohol etc aren’t strictly necessary and use vast amounts of arable land agrochemicals and water for irrigation. I’m not vegan but raising animals for meat uses far more resources than using the land for growing crops Most air travel isn’t strictly necessary airports use vast amounts of space and resources not to mention the air pollution from planes. Driving cars is also one of the most polluting human activities many car journeys aren’t actually essential. But it would be crazy to try banning any of those things Golf courses is just a big ass park. You hate parks? Sure you cant enter some of them but they are also not costing you like a public park And who cares if its for the rich or not? Sure abolish golf. save some water that would go wasted on something else. But first please find a job for the millions of people across the world that live out of that industry. industry workers building the equipment people working maintaining the courses everyone involved in professional golf including cameraman technical stuff etc. all the workers creating golf clothes all the workers creating golf carts And probably Im missing more. Let things go the way the people want it to go. It worked for humanity pretty well so far. Tyrants telling us what we can and cannot do have never lead to anything good. Depends on where they are the world. In my bit of the UK theyre often on floodplains adjacent to rivers that ...flood. jf they werent there that would be a lot of expensive housing underwater. They are pretty gross in places with water shortages or no other accessible green space though Ill give you that Most golf courses in my area are all superfund sites you can’t build anything on or land between retention for stormwater so it’s not like you can put anything else there. I wouldn’t want people to live on a foundation made of decaying death chemicals. Global water usage is 4.3 trillion cubic meters per day one cubic meter is ~264 gallons. That’s 1135939825000000 gallons per day. If golf courses consume 2.8 billion gallons per day that’s a whopping 0.0002% of daily water usage… One course in Utah uses 38 million gallons daily —enough to fill nearly 58 Olympicsized pools. Which course is this? Utah typically uses reclaimed wastewater that is not suitable for human consumption. I would say its good for environmental reasons if we account that its a good use of using land that was formerly landfill but is unstable for regular buildings. [removed] Any other rules youd like to instate to sieve your personal utopia? Im in AZ courses here use reclaimed water. [removed] You could still have Golf exist but massively tax it in order to support offsetting the ecological harm. golf courses are just woods with ponds in them.... what can be more environmentally friendly than nature? [removed] [removed] The US economy is always in stasis. DOGE is example. Dont see how stripping services from needy will improve things Economics as the big picture” or macro perspective. Musk acting as the US’s consultant could not find adequate savings to justify tax breaks. Money generated from the majority i.e. anyone not rich enough to save creates the growth element that floats all boats. Basically taxes are a piece of the profit. No profit no taxes. Reducing taxes for the top while creating additional burdens for the bottom creates negative economic growth. The rich will pay lower % of taxes with TBBB but sales will lessen and profits will evaporate. Anyone seen any empty stores or restaurants lately? Pardon my sarcasm The tax break will quickly become irrelevant as profits evaporate. Only the richest will make it through intact by not needing to rely on new unleveraged revenue. So… the risk of an extended hard recession increases while weakening 99% of everyone but the top 1%. Lowest class are forced into survival mode. US Debt increases pressuring the dollar and raising inflation as part of a negative spiral. Life for many both directly impacted and causily impacted are negatively affected as suffering grows. The American Dream is replaced by South American daily ransoms and unregulated survival vice. Quality of life is depressed overall. Then comes Social Security failure as the long expected Boomer draw increases. These negatives are down the line but the result of short sighted topclass preferences. Prosperity shrinks. The stasis has become tilted to far toward the richest. Here it is my CMV is that narcissism at the top hurts the whole. We need realistic empathy with morals unwavering standards and growth focused attention at the top. It’s amazing how bought politicians beholden to only rich donors have created this mess in conjunction with bought media no longer being fair or balanced. Reps/Senators are not looking out for We The People. In this environment the US’s unique fragile economic model collapses and all suffer not prosper. Selfextinguishes. \ Money generated from the majority i.e. anyone not rich enough to save Im going to push back that one needs to be rich to save. My parents certainly werent rich and managed to save. Same for me. It is more difficult to save larger amounts for sure but the idea that the majority of people cannot save at all only because they arent rich enough is a bit wild to me. \ The rich will pay lower % of taxes with TBBB but sales will lessen and profits will evaporate. I think this is highly dependent on amounts and the product/service in question. Luxuries are generally more elastic and will feel the hit before more necessary things and to a greater degree. Its hardly some across the board thing as there are multiple variables at play. \ We need realistic empathy with morals unwavering standards and growth focused attention at the top. I dont think empathy is all that necessary when we are talking big picture. This is a numbers game at the end of the day. Sympathy can be useful if we want to help out people who are really struggling but I dont need to be able to put myself in someones shoes to see that them struggling to survive means they will spend less on consumer goods. Unwavering standards is a bit vague. I think adaptability is critical so depending on what exactly you mean by that I may agree or disagree hard to say. \ It’s amazing how bought politicians beholden to only rich donors have created this mess in conjunction with bought media no longer being fair or balanced. I think we can attribute at least some of the blame to people who have constantly voted for these bought politicians and continue to do so. \ Reps/Senators are not looking out for We The People More often than not they never were. Corruption/bribery/selfishness/etc is not a new development. Stasis refers to something that is still at rest unchanging etc. but it sounds to me like youre talking about how the economy has been changing lately. I think you need another word. Well disregarding DOGE specifically sometimes removing programs that are designed for the needy is genuinely beneficial to said needy because those programs were indirectly harmful to them. For example a program that offered assistance to single mother homes. So what trend did this cause? Well people tried managing to get said benefit having the father live separately and not marry the mother which in turn may have greatly increased the fatherlessness via the culture it created in poor communities which disproportionately affected African American families. There is a fine line between welfare and enabling which can severely damage communities for generations. All of this is to say there do exist times when removing welfare programs is in the best interest of the needy. Hence appears the cycle of implement and tear down implement and tear down. Because different groups may see different issues and try to correct that until a bill can be made which is actually beneficial in practice and not just in theory Musk acting as the US’s consultant could not find adequate savings to justify tax breaks. This has more to do with the DOGEs limited mandate. They couldnt make proposals for broad reforms of Social Security and Medicare because of the whats in it for me political costs of seniors not wanting their entitlements in any way reduced. Thats a majority of the federal budget that theyre not permitted to even really look at beyond obvious cases of fraud. Of course they werent going to close the budget deficit. Money generated from the majority i.e. anyone not rich enough to save creates the growth element that floats all boats. No it doesnt. Youre ignoring the effects of *investment*. Where do you think all these material goods that people are consuming come from? Consider something as basic as sack of chips A farmer has to raise crops that a trucker has to ship to a processing plant for packaging that a railroader takes cross country for another trucker to deliver to your local grocery store. The farmers tractor didnt come from nothing. He or she had spend good money on buying that. Same for the land water and seed potatoes. The truck and diesel didnt come from nothing. The packing plants machinery and frying vats didnt come from nothing. The railroads locomotives and boxcars didnt come from nothing. The grocery stores building and shelves and staff didnt come from nothing. All of these exist because *someone* took their savings and invested some portion of it into building them. This is where the assumption that savings is somehow lost to the economy breaks down. Basically taxes are a piece of the profit. No profit no taxes. That doesnt necessarily have to be so its just how we do a big chunk taxes in the US. We have sales and property taxes that apply even if you lose money. Reducing taxes for the top while creating additional burdens for the bottom creates negative economic growth. How so? I think Ive established how that money isnt *lost* to the economy overall. What makes you think that federal spending is better for the economy than private investment? US Debt increases pressuring the dollar and raising inflation as part of a negative spiral. And this is a reason for higher spending... How? Then comes Social Security failure as the long expected Boomer draw increases. Again this is a reason for higher federal spending... How? We need realistic empathy with morals unwavering standards and growth focused attention at the top. What would convince you that your opponents actually mean well then? This always feels like begging the question. Oh because they believe in policy that I argue will have a bad outcome they must be selfcentered. You have to buy into the argument that your opponents know that their policy will have a bad outcome and that they *agree* with your conclusion but want to do it anyways out of some odd sense of selfinterest that never seems to make them personally billionaires. Society kills the potential of unattractive people during development. Author PopBardPost Text Im probably biased due to childhood trauma but im just a number in a scary statistic \ The spectrum of the abuse probably varies but it can get to horrid degrees most attractive people will never experience. In my country a 13 year old girl got thrown of a third floor for liking Kpop. She suffered a pelvic fracture. Maybe her destiny was to grow up to be a dancer and not only will she spend most of her life questioning herself due to being undesirable the probability is high that she gets to resent her genuine interests and detatch from them as a survival mechanism. During developmental years this is putrid at its core theres a reason mental illness is at its highest. Once the survival mechanism kicks in they detatch from the society that abused them or they rebel against it and commit horrible things add the vector of substance abuse as a coping mechanism and thats why most people walk around with their souls shattered beyond repair. For the undesirables something as amazing as going to school to learn has the potential to become the same experience as being in jail among murderers. Yet every path is an open door for attractive people talent and hard work are a cherry on top. This is even more prevalent in todays society it celebrates attractiveness every second of the day all over the world just for existing while the undesirables are forced to watch from the benches when all they received was abuse for doing just the same. And even if they overcome a layer of self doubt will haunt them forever Will i receive abuse and rejection for attempting this?. If this kind of poison sets in young enough it sets up people for a life of suffering. Someone out there had the potential to become an amazing health care practictioner that wouldve saved multiple lives and he/she took his/her own instead. All because of something out of their control how they looked lead to an abuse so deep their existence got wiped before it reached something that couldve been truly beautiful. I doubt Brad Pitt ever woke up in panic because waking up and going out there to school had been horrible for the past two years. First off bullying is wrong and every effort should be put in place by all of society to stop it. Im very sorry that you suffer trauma from it. But its not society as a whole that is at fault. There are a number of presumptions you make that are not de facto true. And this is important for you to take to heart YOU are not the reason you were bullied. Nothing is wrong with you you didnt deserve it Most significant is that the bullies are looking for easy targets because they are bullying due to their own insecurities. You presume its looks that play a major role. Ugly people are not always bullied and beautiful people are not always spared. Hollywood Alisters models and the beautiful people tell their own tales of being bullied. Attractive is constantly in flux and very subjective. Since bullies are in need of feeling better about themselves they pick on people who are also insecure or timid weak in the sense of unable to fight back. The solution is entirely within our grasp and within our power. Society can kill anyone’s potential during childhood. It more so boils down to a person’s resilience and their village. People with healthy friend/family groups tend to fare better even when faced with bullying. I know conventionally attractive people who were bullied and also others who were wrongly deemed as unattractive as well who experienced the same cruel treatment. My brother is considered conventionally attractive by society’s standard but was bullied all through school due to being socially awkward and autistic. If you’re considered different to a social group you are more likely to get bullied. It doesn’t matter what you look like. Also attractiveness is also subjective. You can be deemed attractive in one area of the world and unattractive in another part of the world. Framing this around adolescent attractiveness when we see that most attractive people looked normal or even sometimes unattractive when they were younger really nullifies the argument. Kids don’t have to be ugly to get bullied they just have to be different in some way sometimes that’s looks but I doubt that’s most of the time. Let me tell you… ALOT of people are going to disagree with you. Lived experienced just doesn’t support your claims. There are way too many ugly wellsocialized people. As someone who was bullied a TON in school I have a startling revelation for you you don’t actually have to BE any of the things you get bullied for. Sounds insane right? But I got bullied for being ugly. The problem? I’m very good looking. I got bullied for being gay. The problem? I’m very straight. I got bullied for being weak but most of my bullies were half my size…and they were ugly and probably gay too! But I don’t get a flipping support group for being singled out on account of nothing beyond being a pushover. 😂 which is what getting bullied is all about right? It’s someone who wants to hurt someone going out of their way to find someone who won’t fight back. The details of your personality? Your body? Your life? Definitely targets but not the reason for being targeted. I hope that makes sense. Would you clarify how society kills the potential of unattractive people? What evidence has led you to believe that? Im having trouble understanding what this post is trying to say. I do to think you are going to get anyone arguing that bulling is not bad. However do you have any evidence that there is a marked difference based on attractiveness? \ Yet every path is an open door for attractive people That is not true. They have a benefit but that is massive overstatement of that benefit. You could equally emphasize talent and hard work and say that attractiveness is the cherry on top. They are all things that will effect your life along with many others. A lot of attractive celebrities are attractive because they have money. They have a team of people trainers stylists hair and makeup team private chefs plastic surgeons who they pay to make them as attractive as possible. I say that to say without that theyd be normal looking people. So? When they were kids many werent absurdly beautiful. A good percentage were average or below average. Beyond that considering how short men in Hollywood and music are they definitely werent hunks in middle school the way youre imagining. In fact many were nerdy theater kids. So if you can agree with that then the rest of your argument falls flat. Most of them werent the most attractive people at their middle school yet they grew up and became stars. Many were bullied for being unathletic and small. Called gay for being into theater or art. Basically the opposite of what youre saying. I was considered attractive when I was in school and it was still like going to a prison. There was daily violence blood torture extreme bullying etc. no one was exempt from it that I saw. In fact the real slug type people were largely ignored. Physical appearance and lookism are major factors in how someone is treated there’s definitely research on that type of advantage and privilege in general especially for adults. It probably does shield some kids from some bullying sometimes. If the kids are deemed good looking. And that can help a kid gain confidence and develop with a little more peace and less struggle. I’ve also seen good looking kids get bullied by kids who are jealous of them for that and for various other reasons. Another point made here is a reminder that not all good looking adults were particularly good looking kids or teens. It seems a stretch to assume looking average or less than average invites bullying as much as being different in general. And even more of a stretch to blame the bullying behavior and harm on how culture values attractive people. It makes sense to imagine attractive people have it easier and that a particular person might have been less bullied if they were better looking. Blaming good looking people or all of culture for kids getting bullied and losing all confidence doesn’t seem like a direct cause or relationship as much as several symptoms of the same problems and traumas people don’t seem to recognize or recover from. Most bullies are bullied by their parents. And a child who is bullied for any reason at school ideally would have parents intervene and help them find safety in themselves socially and perhaps in an entirely new school setting. So if a kid were bullied enough to lose all confidence in their abilities that’s largely on the adults responsible for their development at home and at school not the fault of celebrities being celebrated. Society kills the potential of kids who are not like the others. This can be several things. Kids can be incredibly cruel to esch other and too often bullies get away wirh it. Post 90 Cmv Small talk serves an important purpose. You know how everyone complains about small talk being pointless? Theyre actually missing something important. When your coworker asks Hows your weekend? theyre not just filling the silence. Theyre checking your vibe are you stressed excited distracted? That quick read tells them whether to approach you with a big project or just leave you alone to get your coffee first. Those few minutes of Nice weather today or Traffic was crazy do something subtle but valuable. Theyre like a social warmup that says Hey were both here were both normal humans and we can interact like civilized people. It makes everything else easier. Think about it your random chats with the grocery clerk your neighbor or the security guard at work might seem forgettable but theyre building something. These casual connections are often the ones who mention job openings help you when youre in a pinch or just make your day a little brighter when you need it. And honestly? Making small talk when youre having a terrible day is actually good practice. It teaches you how to function socially even when you dont feel like it which is a surprisingly useful life skill. Plus taking thirty seconds to acknowledge another persons existence is just... nice. Its a tiny moment of human connection that costs nothing but makes both people feel a little more seen. The people who think theyre too intellectual for small talk often end up isolated missing out on the web of casual relationships that actually make life richer and communities stronger. Yeah and water is wet. The sky is blue. What youre saying is obvious to anyone who has even a little bit of social skills. People who say they hate small talk I just assume that person has no social skills. But the thing I guess I challenge you on there is such a thing as too much small talk. Some countries are known for having more small talk than others. And when it comes to the corporate 95 world some of the forced coworker conversations are so annoying. Im fine chatting with coworkers to make work less boring but sometimes its just annoying to come in to work knowing you have to put on your fake work personality and interact with other people doing their fake work personality. Small talk is to promote limited exchange of information. You say how’s your weekend” but everyone knows this is not the time to give a detailed explanation of the events of your weekend. You say good” and return the favor…. Anything more than that you’re a douche bag lmao. Small talk lacks depth… it has no true value to your agenda and there’s no true value. It’s a small proposition that is used to establish a quick rapport with the other individual to strike an actual conversation… Hey what’s up man” they respond to show they’re acknowledging that they’re now in a conversation with you then you roll into the hey so I’ve been meaning to ask you” It’s filler at best.. it serves a purpose but not really an important one because you can have conversations without small talk. But you can’t have conversation without substantial discussions. The argument that small talk helps check your vibe” or warm up” social interactions assumes everyone wants or needs that kind of interaction. For many people introverts those with social anxiety or just folks who value efficiency small talk is exhausting stressful or even alienating. It can actually create a barrier rather than a bridge. Also relying on small talk to maintain casual social bonds assumes that these superficial exchanges actually lead to real support or connection. But often they don’t. Job leads or favors come from deeper relationships not a quick Nice weather today.” Finally the idea that small talk is just nice” ignores that sometimes it’s forced politeness that prevents people from being authentic. Wouldn’t it be better if we had fewer meaningless exchanges and more honest genuine conversations instead? In short while small talk may have its place I think it’s often overrated and people would benefit from less of it not more. It depends on context and purpose. Ill go into the office and say hi ask people how their weekend was etc. Thats the kind you have in mind. Its a polite way to show I care about them and functions as a social norm to set a nice tone for the day. But then you get small talk like my aunt does. You go to visit her and she does nothing but small talk. Vacuous drivel that serves no purpose says nothing and has everyone desperate to leave. Context is everything. Do you think you might be wrong about that? EDIT its a legit question because it sounds like youve already got your mind made up and are more interested in changing other peoples minds. Thats not what this place is for. This place is for those who realize they may have a flawed viewpoint and are wanting someone to challenge their beliefs in a way to help them change it. in east asian cultures small talks are often regarded as silly and timeandenergydraining. it doesnt mean that east asian people dont value intimacy in human relationships but they dont feel that sharing small talk moments doesnt help build it. what i am trying to say is emphasizing small talk is not universal culture but very american or westcentric practice where approach to building intimacy is very private and individualistic. Are you sure people say it’s pointless or do they just say they don’t like it? It’s possible for something to be unenjoyable and unfulfilling but also serve an important purpose. I don’t consider this small talk. This is just being a human Small talk is like at a cocktail party standing around forcing something because silence is awkward I think it depends on your definition of small talk and where and how it happens. I dont think of small talk as How was your weekend? Good too short you? Oh yeah same. To me small talk is when you say Hey how was your weekend? to a coworker while youre both getting coffee and expecting an interaction like above and the other person launches into a blowbyblow description of the past 48 hours and then if you dont offer up the same starts interrogating you. Meanwhile you have work you need to do and you genuinely dont care how long your coworkers soninlaws best friend went to the bathroom for. Or youre at some kind of event like a wedding and somebody spends three minutes describing what the weather was like this week. I lived through this week I dont need a recap. But because every casual interaction can turn into this I will avoid saying something like How was your weekend? What is intended as a vibe check turns into a trap. The small talk is the trap. This is a personality variation Some people begin with the deep conversation and only finish up with the small talk stuff at the end how much small talk there is at the end will vary widely some people like OP will start with small talk. To the former small talk can appear to be of limited to no practical use. To the latter its a valuable part of human communication both can be true this is just a result of normal human variation. The book Quiet the Power of introverts goes over some of the reasons for these variations small talkers you might guess tend to be extraverts big concepts first people tend to be introverts I avoid small talk because my memory sucks and that causes me problems with small talk. I start small talk they respond and give me a few personal details in their life which I forget. Then I see them a week later and Ive forgotten those details. Maybe they dont realize or maybe they think Im a jerk because I didnt listen after I initiated a conversation with them. It is great for making people feel awkward and leave you alone. Agreed 👍 People who complain about small talk are trying way too hard to appear intelligent and above it all. + Evil does NOT exist. Societal right and wrong is built around a structural framework. A human made structural framework. Most if not all examples of right pertain to positive emotions positive experiences and pleasure. Whilst wrong revolves around pain anger hate torment etc. All of the flowing are relative to time period social and environmental upbringing culture. What is considered wrong decades ago isn’t necessarily considered wrong today. For example same sex marriage. Before you jump in and say things like Well we are moving towards what is right”. Just because the general population decides that something is now considered ok that wasn’t in the past doesn’t mean it was right” all along and we were blind to a universal truth. It just means we are moving towards the ideas of peace health etc which is also associated with survival and longevity. Now let’s talk about EVIL”. What kinds of actions in society are typically viewed as evil? Well for one the killing of one or many individuals without any lawful or moral justificationonce again both of those parameters are subjective. In the same sense. Someone like Ted Bundy would be widely considered evil cowardly monsterlike because of his societal actions. Well most if not all of why Bundy did what he did can be broken down to his physicality and psychology. For one he was a diagnosed psychopath. Meaning he’s physically incapable of feeling what an empath can feel. So his condition had everything to do with his brain chemistry. Which is not something he can control. He had a variety of questionable desires since a young age. Such as fantasy revolving murder and rape of family members school mates and even neighbors. He ended up acting on MOST of these desires later in life which resulted in the termination of many innocent” lives. To sum this up. In my honest opinion. I think people who genuinely believe in the concept of evil are out of touch with reality. We are all slaves to our biological predispositions. And those who are more prone to certain behaviors are more likely to act on them whereas usually the ones judging those are less biologically prone. It’s easy to say that someone who acts on evil thoughts is evil. But I never believed it was that simple. I see evil as a concept. And these actions as nothing more than I would see an error in a computer system which is more relative to societal values than it is a real OBJECTIVE error. I think my issue with your beliefs stems from one sentence I think people who genuinely believe in the concept of evil are out of touch with reality. To me this sentence seems to imply that you think getting in touch with reality is our highest goal. Or maybe I should say a higher goal than avoiding evil if it exists. And yet putting the question like that should make it perfectly clear we have higher goals. Our goal is not to embrace reality but to make life better for all of us. Whats the best way to do that? I suppose its possible that if we pursue the theory that evil is a state of mind in a selfproclaimed judge that has nothing to do with reality a characteristic of those who are fruitlessly trying to order the world in ways that cannot be quote unquote real that life will get better for all of us. But I cant see a mechanism there. I cant see how that would work. But if we imagine that evil is real and try to avoid it guess what it seems a LOT more likely that we will actually avoid evil if such a thing is real. And whats the downside of imagining that evil is real and being wrong about that? Well we could place too much faith in our perception of it and penalize people unnecessarily harshly for things they may not even control as in your Ted Bundy example. We could. Or we could not. That too is possible. We could in our hunt for evil and its avoidance remain aware that we have an unfortunate tendency to go too far and make conscious efforts to avoid that. To me it makes more sense to imagine that evil is real and to then imagine that we have the capacity to discover it and to imagine that we can avoid it without going overboard. All those things seem possible to me. And if we imagine all those things it seems to me to be at least 50/50 that we will actually avoid something which would have been awful. Which would have shamed our ancestors. I would like to do that. I would like to avoid shaming my relatives. Sure we cant know for sure but if we imagine that evil is not a real thing and were wrong about that the downside seems a lot worse than imagining that it IS a real thing and being wrong about THAT. Plus it might actually BE a real thing. So theres that. I think youre making a couple claims here A moral responsibility doesnt exist due to a lack of free will and B ethical relativism is true meaning that moral claims like its always wrong to steal are not truth apt so its meaningless to label them true or false. Much like I cant label drop and give me 50! as true or false because its not a propositional statement. On the first claim I also dont believe in free will so I deny the existence of *strong moral responsibility*. This is the idea that people deeply deserve punishment for immoral actions or praise for positive actions. But its still useful to talk about *weak moral responsibility* and theres a nice chart highlighting the differences here https//breakingthefreewillillusion.com/moralresponsibilityinfographic/ By responsibility we really just mean how we should respond to someone on the basis of their actions should we praise them punish them encourage them etc. From my framework utilitarianism this just means responding to them or assigning responsibility in whichever way is best for everyones wellbeing rather than on the basis of what they deeply deserve. Most if not all examples of right pertain to positive emotions positive experiences and pleasure. Whilst wrong revolves around pain anger hate torment etc. On the second claim Id just start with an assertion good and bad things exist in the universe this is all we need for morality. And its as you said good refers to positive mental states and bad refers to negative mental states. Note that under ethical relativism good and bad are treated like madlibs or fillintheblank words without any definitive meaning. Theres no reason to do this when we can actually assign these words a meaning and be precise as to what were talking about. If we have this starting basis of actually defining what we mean by good and bad then we can talk about which actions are actually good and actually bad. Someone committing serial murders is really causing an immense amount of actually bad mental states and therefore their action is bad or wrong. This is all were saying with moral statements assertions of rightness or wrongness are just assertions of goodness or badness. For example I shouldnt murder innocent people just means it is a net harm to murder innocent people which is a truth apt statement its either true or false and clearly true. Even though Ted Bundy was a psychopath and doesn’t experience emotion and empathy the same way we do doesn’t mean his actions weren’t evil”. He logically understood what he was doing was harming others. He understood the consequences of his actions. Even if he was unlucky enough to be born with a psychopaths brain and raised in a way that didn’t allow him to overcome the desires he had he still knew what he was doing was wrong and did it anyway. I agree that in a way we have no control over who we are. Ted bundy didn’t choose to be a psychopath. He didn’t choose to have the childhood and experiences he did. But he did choose to murder those women. And he knew murder was wrong knew the consequences for both the victim and himself and did it anyway. That’s evil. Late to the party and I wrote this a while ago for a philosophy thread Evil is no mere privation no simple absence of some subjective good as you hastily conclude. Rather it is a substantive reality a force or condition that exists in its own right measurable against the standard of perfection or that which is complete admitting no deficiency in its kind superior to all else of its nature and fully attaining its purpose or end. Consider for a moment a thing be it a man a tree or even a city its perfection lies in the fulfillment of its essence the realization of its potential in accordance with its form. A tree that grows tall bears fruit and withstands the seasons is perfect in its kind a man who achieves virtue wisdom and the flourishing life eudaimonia has attained his purpose. Now let us turn to evil. If evil were merely the opposite some individually subjective good it would be a lack a void where virtue or benefit fails to reside as an absence rather than a presence. But this view falters for evil manifests itself not as a passive emptiness but as an active deviation a corruption that disrupts the order of being. Evil is that which opposes perfection thwarting the completion of a thing’s nature and diverting it from its purpose. It is not the negation of subjective goodness in some abstract sense but the frustration of that which could be whole excellent and purposeful. Take for instance the tyrant. The tyrant does not merely lack the goodness of a just ruler he actively subverts the perfection of the people. His rule is not incomplete in a neutral sense but disordered turned toward selfish ends rather than the common good which is the purpose of governance. His actions are not a passive falling short off subjective expectations but a deliberate opposition to what the state could be at its best. Here evil reveals itself as real and objective it is not subjective opinion that marks the tyrant as evil but the observable fact of his divergence from the perfection proper to his role. Moreover consider the natural world. A blight upon a crop does not simply diminish its goodness it attacks its capacity to reach maturity to become the full expression of its kind. This blight is not the opposite of some vague subjectivegoodness” but the enemy of the plant’s perfection and its ability to grow ripen and fulfill its purpose in the cycle of life. Evil then exists as a force or state that objectively hinders the realization of a thing’s potential measurable against the standard of what it ought to be. We must say that evil is not a privation of the good as some might suppose but a contrary to that which is perfect. For perfection as has been shown is the state of a being when it is complete in its nature when nothing of its kind surpasses it and when it has attained its end. Evil then is that which opposes this completion not by mere absence but by an active turning away from the proper form. Just as health is the perfection of the body and disease its contrary not the absence of health but its corruption and so too is evil the corruption of a thing’s purpose real in its effects and objective in its presence. Thus evil is not the opposite of good in a simplistic subjective moral duality but the adversary of perfection. It is real for its consequences are evident in the world seen and unseen it is objective for it can be judged against the standard of a thing’s proper end not merely felt as a matter of taste. In this we see that evil stands not as a shadow over one’s moral sunshine but as a challenger to the very order of being. Most if not all examples of right pertain to positive emotions positive experiences and pleasure. Whilst wrong revolves around pain anger hate torment etc. I would say this is partially correct but perhaps incomplete. In addition to immediate positive emotions I think we also care about for example having the freedom to operate as we choose. Being able to participate equally in society. Those kinds of things. In any case sure morality is broadly rooted in human nature and the human experience. We say things are moral when they provide good for people and immoral otherwise. And more to the point I would call this a reasonable framework for evaluating the good. What is considered wrong decades ago isn’t necessarily considered wrong today. For example same sex marriage. See heres where we start running into issues. Your initial conception of right and wrong was about producing positive human experience and now youre on this cultural construction. But if we want to say that gay marriage might be wrong its really hard to ground that perspective within that above framework. After all if I have a gay marriage then that will presumably make me happier and at the very least having the option available would seem to be to my benefit. Moreover I appreciate the freedom to do as such. The argument against is what? Without appealing to Bible verses its really hard to ground this perspective. Is my theoretical gay marriage really hurting these people so much? Is it hurting them more than it helps me? Disrespecting their freedom more than mine is being respected? In the same sense. Someone like Ted Bundy would be widely considered evil cowardly monsterlike because of his societal actions. Well most if not all of why Bundy did what he did can be broken down to his physicality and psychology. I would say there are two separate notions going on here. Evil actions and evil people. If we want to evaluate an action as evil then we can again simply refer to the framework above. Things that are broadly to humanitys benefit are good and things that are to humanitys detriment are bad. Murder here decidedly goes into the bad category. We might need to put some work into ironing out the details of what things are to humanitys benefit but however we do it murders probably going in the bad pile. For evaluating people I suppose you might want a two step approach one which notably sees usage in legal structure. That being did the person do a bad thing actus reus and did they have bad intent mens rea. I dont know much about Ted Bundy but there is likely some subset of murderers who do not have the intent to do harm or otherwise have something going on that warps their behavior. But yknow not all of them do. Some people murder folks cause they just want some money. Or cause theyre pissed off. Or any number of other reasons. You think Bundy can be excluded from this notion of evil but certainly not everyone can. And if there are people who do meet these criteria I would say that evil people exist. The real evil is making me read that without paragraph breaks. Jokes aside how *exactly* are you defining evil? We cant have a proper discussion without defining this term carefully. Evil is just a word to mean profoundly immoral. And immoral simply means not conforming to society’s accepted standards of morality. To say evil does not exist is indirectly saying morality and immorality do not exist. But all morality is is society’s accepted behavior and standards. These things exist by default and therefore it is possible to deviate from those standards. Extreme deviation is by definition evil. [deleted] Yes Evil is a concept. If you ground down the universe and sifted it through a sieve you wouldnt find a single atom of evil. Or justice. Or love. Or mercy. Or happiness. These are just names for things we experience. Of course it doesnt have any meaning outside of its context. There are no evil particles so Evil isnt real in that sense but all the behaviors we subscribe to evil are! Its kind of a useless thing to point out to be honest. There are no Kindness waves but if you gave a person in need your last twenty dollars well good thing we have a word to describe the phenomenon! Youre just dancing around the edge of a few concepts Evil isnt a fixed thing you can define its abstract just like the ideas of justice or beauty or fair Just because they dont mean the exact same thing to everyone doesnt mean they arent useful words to convey the idea that they represent The other thing is that there is no correct perspective on morality its a subjective view and its your own responsibility to form your own set of morals. Any given society will have a generally accepted and enforced moral code because otherwise its chaos so if you decide killing people is fine then youre still living in a community of people who dont think the same and who believe its moral to punish you for your actions Youll never find a concrete answer to what is evil or what is moral but they serve a valid purpose in helping humans live together in some sort of peaceful cooperation and find other likeminded people to associate with \ We are all slaves to our biological predispositions you are claiming that actions arent evil because you feel that the people carrying out those actions shouldnt be viewed as morally culpable because you believe at least to some extent in determinism. I think you can separate moral evaluation of an action from how culpable you view an individual. An action can be morally wrong even if you think the person carrying out the action has no agency in their choices. You believe committing murder is not an evil act? Work in law enforcement and/or healthcare for a while. I’ve done both. You’ll change your mind. Hello 👋. I’m here to change your view but I’m worried that you haven’t actually provided an argument for anything. The title says Evil doesn’t exist” but then your closing statement calls it a concept. 😒 Those two statements exist in direct contradiction. That said I am happy to offer some golden insights free of charge. 1 The best way to visualize objective good and bad is to view them as 2 boxes. These are two concepts everyone agrees on. What they don’t agree on is what belongs in what box. What we put in the good box? Is called good. What we put in the bad box? Is called bad but pointing out that the things in the box are not actually the box itself? That’s not really an insightful observation so much as it is obvious and failing to recognize that it is obvious? That speaks to a fundamental lack of comprehension in your own mind. You were imagining that the things being placed in the box were fusing with it and you were awestruck to realize it was not the case. Now that you realize it’s really better to just act like you knew all along because walking around telling people that the packaging isn’t actually part of the product! 👀 —that makes you look a bit looney. 2 The best way to think of evil” is a synonym for opposing me.” That is to say evil is a role—a role filled by what opposes us. Now opposition is a thing defined in relation to our goals and since we don’t all have the same goals guess what? We aren’t all opposed by the same things and therefore do not view the same things as evil. Thus opposition” is the objective force the box and evil” is what *in particular* is applying that force to us personally. I hope these insights can help you to color your world further yet. I would generalize that no concept really exists and evil is a concept so it doesn’t exist. That being said shared concepts including evil at very useful to a group. The classification probably started as a classification for thugs that were very dangerous especially to children. If something or someone was evil everyone has to avoid it. It’s taboo and the attitude of saying see no evil hear no evil surreal no evil”. It also was considered tainting as being touched by evil” implies. Because even thinking about an evil thing taunts evil is not explained or discussed just feared avoided conquered or destroyed. This reason also gives it a lot of utility to group survival. It keeps the order and is very effective to unify a group as it defines the enemy. It’s unfortunate that it has so much power as a concept since it is basically destructive and ironically it’s easy to argue that the concept of evil is actually evil. What if there IS an objective morality without any superseding supernatural force to define it? What if morality is like math? I believe and assume most people would also that strict mathematical principles are true whether or not people disagree. If two calculators come to different conclusions that doesn’t mean math is subjective it means one or both calculators are broken. So if morality is like math and we’re just a bunch of busted calculators objective good and evil could still exist. We’re just too simple to understand it fully. So like Putin Hitler Stalin Pol Pot Mao Zedong the dictator of North Korea? Terrorist attacks like 9/11 or Oct 7? Not evil? It seems like you deny free will exists and good exists right? Have you ever worked through this article here? https//plato.stanford.edu/entries/conceptevil/#ConTheEviCha Stalin Hitler Spanish inquisition Mao Idi Amin... Satan was created like a supercomputer nanny for Gods children. But this supercomputer at one moment became so evil and started brai nwashing Gods children to the point that 33% of them rejected God as their Father and accepted the Devil Satan as their true father they said and did horrible things to the real Heavenly Father Bible Book of Job and Jude. God created the earth as a hospital for fallen own children and gave the Devil limited power on one condition so fallen children would see and compare evil Devil the Satan and hopefully some would reject evil and return to Heavenly Father through the only way and only Gate Jesus. **God to prove His true Fatherhood and His love for His fallen children died on the cross.** Each human has an eternal soul that cannot die and receives from God up to a thousand lives reincarnations rebirth born again on earth. So on the final Judgment Day no one can blame God that He did not give enough chances and options to see what is Evil and what is Good and make a right decision to turn away from Evil and choose Good. I can quote from the Bible but Jewish Rabbis on YouTube have already explained the Biblebased concept much better Jewish Reincarnation It exists. There is nothing in the world that 100% of people agree on — literally nothing. I believe that no matter how obvious logical or morally clear something might seem there will always be someone somewhere who disagrees. It could be something as extreme as killing babies is bad or the sun exists — and still you’ll find contrarians people with mental illnesses trolls or just radically different perspectives who reject even the most basic statements. This makes me think that total consensus is impossible and that disagreement is a fundamental part of human nature. Even the most universal values or facts can be denied by someone. CMV Is there anything at all that literally every human would agree on? Im sure that 100% of people would agree that 100% of people will never agree to anything. I have a few criticisms of the view here. To get the easy one out of the way I dont think trolls count because they do agree theyre just saying the other thing to be a dick. Or I guess to put it plainly trolling is a different thing from disagreement so we can leave that off. Then I think if youre defining total consensus as every single person on the planet agreeing to a thing then I think that trivializes the view into uselessness and makes it meaningless. Absolute global consensus is not a thing that is ever needed or even particularly desired so theres really no point in talking about whether its possible or not. But to play the game I think the statement that absolutely everyone would agree to on some level is I exist. You cant even ponder the question let alone answer it without implicitly agreeing to it. We even get the solipsists on board with that one. Now I know you do have the edge cases where there are mental conditions or even just weird philosophies that will prompt people to say they dont have a sense of self and similar but again even if they dont think they are a human being with a mind of their own just basic interaction with the question demonstrates that they believe they exist in some form even if its not the form they believe is sitting in the room answering the question. The problem with your 100% argument is that some people exist who are brain dead in a coma mentally ill profoundly developmentally disabled and very small children and other things that can keep someone from agreeing or even understanding. So the 100% Bar is difficult to reach because not all humans have the capacity to think or reason. If instead we limit the frame of your argument to Conscious Adults Of Sound Mind and judgment Not Under Duress without developmental impairment. &amp not a part of a group of uncontacted people Then I believe we can reach a 100% consensus or extremely close to one like 99.99%+ on many things. Which for arguments sake is close enough to 100%. Such as People need sleep to survive or food / water to survive. Some foods tastes better than other foods. Books typically contain words. Grass is typically green. Everybody poops. Money can be exchanged for goods and services. Well there is one thing everyone agrees on whether they realize it or not. Everyone wants to experience pleasure and avoid pain. And if you say some people want to experience pain yes they exist but they get pleasure from the pain so they still want pleasure. Breathing is the most efficient way to get oxygen into the lungs You start asking around for someone who disagrees but I think we can comfortably assume 100% would choose to breathe over any available alternative You as a human need water air and some kind of food to survive. If they disagree they’ll be dead in a few minutes a few days or at most a few weeks. The desire to be alive. Those who dont want to arent aroun anymore.. those who claim to want to but arent gone dont want it enough and lie. Breathing is essential. And for those who refuse to accept it invite them to your specially designed no air pod for them to prove. Problem solved 100% of those alive agree on something. 2 things are either true Either to agree on something it must be spoken first that is to say only statements can be agreed with OR we can agree on something without speaking it out loud. If its the first I agree with you just because 100% of people will never communicate enough to make that true. This is not so interesting though. If its the 2nd then 100% of people tacitly agree on lots of things. In order to say somethibg is true you must tacitly believe that there is such a thing as truth. In order to be alive as someone else pointed out you have to tacity believe in the nececities of living breathing drinking water or that we are experiencing something at all. In order to then verbally disagree we all must tacitly agree in the laws of grammar and logic which makes I disagree mean I disagree. I think the only way you could win your agrument is to play a sort of shell game with what people must tacitly agree on in order to interact and what they overtly say they believe. Its easy to shift something everyone takes for granted to someone somewhere doesnt believe that. But underneath every stated disagreement is a thousand tacit agreements which everyone in the world agrees on. Do you think someone would disagree with the statement all bachelors are unmarried . I forget the word for these types of things Whats the point of this view especially when taken in a very pedantic way trying to prove that literally every single human who we will then ask individually should have the same take. Being a little bit more pragmatic everyone will agree with very basic and common facts. For example saying something like At some point in their lives every adult human has slept at least once. Sleep is a fundamental bodily function without which we cannot survive. You wouldnt find anyone genuinely disagreeing with this take. Now you could argue that people will be contrarian and still disagree for the sake of it but what is the value of this disagreement? What are the arguments that could be used to state a reasonable counterpoint to the statement above? I think that the opposite position would be indefensible and the contrarian would at the very least have to concede a part of the argument. Essentially I think you would find that nobody would be able to disagree with the most basic facts that everyone has anecdotal experience with. 100% of people agree with I can determine the validity of this statement. Checkmate. Mosquitos are annoying? As someone that was an adult during 911 the entire country came together. This was before politics were able to be manipulated by cable news and the desire to divide us wasn’t what it is now but the whole country was hurt and scared and angry….together Universal truths? 1+1=2 Living in that moment is preferable to death. Id say We need food but Ive seen people believe you can live on sunlight... so... ? I dont want to change your main view because I dont think its necessarily wrong but I do want to challenge the way you seem to be portraying your view. Your stance is so broad and vague that its kind of meaningless. Based on your examples of contrarians and trolls you seem to be defining agree and disagree simply by what someone might say in the moment. At least for the purpose of a stance like this I dont think thats a good or even useful definition. If you say the sun will rise tomorrow and I say it wont just to be contrarian but I dont genuinely believe that do we really disagree? At the very least I think for something to count as a disagreement the two perspectives have to both be genuinely held beliefs. If we can agree that the bar for disagreement is at least at you have to actually believe what youre saying then I think an argument could be made that some basic axioms are universally held beliefs. I dont know all that much about philosophy but I feel like quite a bit of it centers around that question. I think therefore I am and all that. Are you talking about the unmeasurable difference in interactions of particles in a persons brain eyes and vocal chords meaning that they couldnt possible have exactly the same view on a subatomic level? I think its possible to define something so broadly that yeah you get 100%. Try this the world exists in some form even if only as a subjective perceptual phenomenon. Can mental illness and deliberate contrarians be taken into account when it comes to consensus? If someone is detached from reality then their opinion isnt really an opinion its a delusion. You need to regularly consume something that includes H20 in order to survive. Who disagrees? we all eat sleep drink water… i bet there’s more than that You’re reading this right now 100% of people will agree that somebody thinks that 100% of people will not agree on something. That person is you. Food is yummy and things wouldnt survive very well without a form of water Sky is blue. Kinda depends on who people are. If Im the only person and I cant prove that that statement is false then 100% of people agree on everything. Some people are jerks. Does anyone still like Shia Lebouf? Did anyone ever? you say consensus is impossible but i disagree on that point. eventually everyone in the human race or at least the current cohort of everyone currently alive will be dead and so well have 100% consensus on every issue by default so consensus is not only possible but its inevitable We all agree that all humans die 2 is more than 1 Shrek is a masterpiece Would your view itself not count? The sky is up Water is wet. 100% of people would agree that humans exist You could argue that to agree on something is not merely what one says because anyone could lie and say they believe the sun doesn’t exist but if they’re outside in the desert suddenly they start acting as if the sun is real. So instead we can measure agreement by *actions* and not words. So what do all people agree on through their actions? Well some people commit suicide so we can’t say that everyone agrees that life is good. Some people even torture themselves so we can’t exactly say that everyone wants to avoid pain. However underlying every single action is a desire and so regardless of whatever that desire may be everyone follows that desire or preference. And so everyone agrees on this That in any moment I prefer to do whatever it is that I feel like doing”. This is simply a tautology. Even if you want to somehow refute this by purposely doing something other than what you would normally do this itself would be the result of the desire of being contrarian and trying to refute it which would actually prove it. So in the end everyone always does whatever they feel like doing in that moment. The issue with your view is that there are verifiable facts that transcend agreement. You may say humans dont need to breathe air but your body will say otherwise. If you genuinely mean 100% then no. That is never possible. Because someone in say San Fran just will not have the same basis of understanding almost anything as someone on Sentinel Island. In addition there are a proportion of the human population around the world who suffer from serious mental health issues that can distort basic reality. Finally there are powerful narcotics that can also redefine a persons reality. So the challenge is that your 100% of 100% criteria is too stretching. If you went with 99.8 or 99.9% of humans then it might be possible to find something all humans agree on. 1 = 1 Logical tautologies like this are universally agreed upon because they are inherent to the nature of reasoning and cannot be logically denied. There exists a.k.a the general existential clause **∃**. This is selffulfilling and circular. Disagreeing with this statement requires someone to say that there is not a thing that exists. Some would say nothing exists because everything is a simulation therefore a simulation exists. Any other tautology would work in my opinion its the definition of a tautology after all. I think 100% of people will agree that humans must eat and drink and if it isnt 100% now itll be 100% in a couple of weeks. Given enough time everyone will agree on their own mortality. Despite the naysayers eventually old age or misfortune will convince them of the truth. Why I wonder is yours a view with any significance or worthy of bothering to change. How I wonder would you set out to prove that there is someone somewhere who disagrees with the notion that the Universe including everything that exists should not be totally and permanently annihilated. this is just a foolish statement. what people believe and empirical evidence are not correlated your opinion or belief in them is irrelevant certain things are observable. period. How about the fact that you need to drink water. Anyone who doesn’t believe that will die so they don’t count as they’re not apart of the world anymore. Point in fact I think 100% of people would agree with this statement. Which would then disprove the statement. But everyone would agree about that too. There is nothing in the world that 100% of people agree on or there is something in the world that 100% of people agree on Pizza tastes better than dog shit. Youre probably right. Its possible that every adult in the world would agree that I exist. I would say as someone educated in philosophy that the only legitimate answer is you believe at the very least that you exist. You believe existence is a thing. Even from a solipsistic point of view that is someone who believes only they are realthey at least believe in their own existence. So in that sense we all agree that *we* exist. And failing that that *something* existence is necessary. We may just disagree on everything else. Another contender would be that we all believe/know that we think. We are aware or conscious. Again I mean from our own perspective. Many people would nitpick and say a comatose person is unconscious but that isnt my point. My point is that anyone that is conscious is well conscious of that. If you deny that I have to assume you are merely being contrarian because to believe so imply to believe something so contradictory to your own thinking it isnt possible in the most irrational sense. This isnt about rational belief its just one of those primal fundamental experiences. What I mean is I have to assume someone is lying or confused because it is impossible to not believe something exist. Even believing in non existence is paradoxically a positive belief about something. Even a complete nihilist that somehow claim nothing exist or is real is making claims that only make sense in a context where existence is paradoxically possible. Even the most void minded nihilist has to believe existence is a thing to deny it it wouldnt conceptually hold otherwise. Youre right but this relies on the assumption that we need to agree 100%. Thats not necessary as long as majority agree and drive societal changes. If 90% of people observe that certain values have measurable and positive consequences obviously it will be deemed as worthy as a moral value. There doesnt have to be 100% because 90% already gives a lot of weight to their stance at least in practical terms. If 90% people agree something is true that doesnt mean it is but that its much more likely than the alternatives. And for most purposes thats good enough as long as it works in practice Actually I would say youre wrong. There are things that people one hundred percent grion and then other people that come in with their alternative facts. We need to not let people argue that the sky is not blue. Everybody can agree because we all have eyes except for the ones that are blind that the sky is blue. There are some people out there. Theyd love to play devils advocate. And then theres some people out there that just want to throw a wrench in everything because chaos is what they love. I think it should be easy to all agree that the sky is blue. Well you mention trolls but trolls have awareness that they are trolling and they probably agree on something that is not what they may be technically espousing just to get a reaction. If you could just somehow get a truth serum for every individual that has at least some mental awareness non comatose people not people less than 2 years old etc then you could probably get to some way to get them to agree that if I drop a rock from the sky it will fall towards the ground assuming we are on earth with no atypical scenarios effecting this environment. Contrarions and philosophers can question the specifics but the overall statement will remain agreeable from their own perspective. I mean its really not that hot of a take. If you could filter by IQ i think there would be an inflection point as you moved up the scale where the chances get more likely for any particular question. Its the mentally ill and low IQ individuals that effectively make it near impossible for that to happen on a planet with 8 billion people. I am certain that if you took the top 1% of individuals by IQ they would have multiple things they all agreed on. When I say everyone agrees on this and some smart ass comes and says well actually Ive see a video of a post of a dude that doesnt I get slightly frustrated because obviously everyone is a hyperbole. Then I always have to think about that dude that shit in his hand and threw it in the toilet from the early Internet days.... Since the Internet theres ALWAYS someone special. Doesnt mean its in any shape or form relevant for the broader public. I think most non mentally ill people who are at least capable of forming coherent sentences would agree they exist in one way or the otheras in being capable of interacting with the plane with exist in. But trolls exist so if its its like a survey there will always be people who disagree just to be contrarian like you said even if deep down they agree. If you include mentally disabled then yes theres 0 chance we all agree on something Everyone agrees Jon Jones is ducking Tom Aspinall This makes me think that total consensus is impossible Yes. But it doesn’t really matter. that disagreement is a fundamental part of human nature. There’s a few sources of disagreement. People make mistakes. People are concluding from different facts. People are ignorant on how to know what’s true in a particular area. And people evade. You could mathematically disprove this assuming that opinions are independently assigned person A doesn’t automatically have the opposite opinion of B given that there are an infinite number of topics to have an opinion on and a finite set of people to have opinions we know for certain there must exist some topic where literally all people agree. It’s possible but there’s so few people objecting that it doesn’t make a difference. 99.9% of folks who speak English are able to objectively state that there are 26 letters in the English alphabet. The other 0.1% will try to convince you ‘&amp’ is still a letter in the alphabet and shouldn’t have been removed in 1835. I don’t know why this is a profound view point. You’re saying humans don’t agree on anything 100%. Every single person who made a comment to OP about something we can agree of they said no with some sort of reason every single time. Don’t post then if you’re not actually looking for someone to change your view You can show mathematically given some reasonable assumptions and one mathematical assumption that it isnt true. Its been a while since youve asked so a lot of comments going about and our time is limited and j see youve awarded two deltas already anyway but can drop the thought process for it if you want. 1. At this point in time right now not a single human without the assistance of anything outside their own anatomy can jump through their own effort from the ground into outer space 2. A single hamster could not beat the fuck out of a pack of angry elephants 3. It is impossible to swim to Pluto There is a branch of academics which is the collection of totally irrefutable facts. It’s not science as scientific theories are simply our current best guesses as to how the world works. Its mathematics. And people can’t even agree on mathematics. So yeah There is people that hate being alive hate that humanity continues to exist or hate life itself due to not being without suffering we dont agree on which foods are good nor that sleepsex and love are pleasing so yeah there is nothing we 100% agree on Best I can think of is something like If living is your objective then breathing is the optimal action but even then it starts with an if. There are some actions that are objectively best but its difficult to imagine a 100% mutually desired goal. Because some people dont know what they want and are indoctrinated to both not know what they want and advocate against what others need. That said if we had a healthy society the overwhelming majority of people would agree on human well being. I was in a band in high school. We were pretty good. We were not the greatest band of all time. Im pretty sure since nobody ever heard of us that everyone can agree that my high school band is not the greatest band of all time. I randomly met the famous whistle blower Daniel Ellsberg before he passed away. We talked about Trump for a while. He told me the only thing he counts on is that not everyone is wrong 100 percent of the time. The only unit of measurement that literally everyone uses is time. Hours minutes and seconds. Calendars differ days and weeks might look different but everyone uses the same measurement for time. We all agree that we exist in some capacity. I think therefore I am. That is also the only thing we can be 100 percent certain is true. Everything else could just be us living in a matrix Is there anything at all that literally every human would agree on? Everyone do believe that people want to be happy. They cannot agree on what will make people happy though. Food but then you have breatharians. The world is round flat earthers. Ive never heard of a person disagreeing that we breathe air? Can we all agree we breathe air/ oxygen? Its better to be healthy than sick. No matter your circumstance you will never ever say My life would be so much better if only my lower back started to hurt a little more. Wouldnt 100% of people agree breathing is necessary to stay alive? Or wouldnt they agree that when on Earth we orient concepts of up and down according to gravity? Think we’d all agree that misquotes sucks no? Probably someone weird reading this right who gats off to scratching an itch so that might fly right out the window. When you need to poop very badly having a place where it is socially acceptable to poop near you at that time is preferable to not having that near you at that time. Actions and behavior are not the same as what people claim by saying something. Talk is cheap. 100% of people would agree that they don’t want to be set on fire While I think you are correct Im having trouble thinking about what could change your view. An infant isnt going to agree with anything really for example Is there anything at all that literally every human would agree on? Stubbing your toe in the dark sucks. Papercuts suck. Scratching an itch feels good. The Dismantling of Americas Cyber Security Capabilities is part of a Deliberate Strategy to End Democracy. I contend that the current administration is deliberately creating the conditions for a terrorist attack or other national tragedy to occur. I contend that the systematic elimination of large swaths of government agencies / departments concerned with cyber security and threats to the homeland are not a part of a cost cutting agenda but the deliberate creation of the conditions necessary for a 9/11 type tragedy to occur. I contend that the dismissal of JAGS the reassignment of key member of the justice department the promotion of yes men with no experience to vital roles in the security apparatus the dismissal of hawks from the national security council the revoking of national security briefings for former presidents and generals and much more besides are all a part of said plan. There is no one at the wheel watching guard. This is in effect an open invitation for Americas enemies to create an event of the magnitude of a 9/11 creating the conditions this administration seeks to suspend habeas corpus to surveil and arrest political opponents to have the army / national guard patrol main street. Perhaps even to suspend an election or two. I say this because it is crucial that we see the trap being laid and because this has been the pattern in erstwhile democracies that turned autocratic. Example Hitler and the Reichstag fire 1933 used the pretext of the fire to pass the Reichstag Fire Decree suspending civil liberties and allowed for mass arrest of political foes ....then to pass the Enabling Act which suspended democratic rule There are many more recent examples from Turkey to Sri Lanka from Russia to Venezuela. I hope I am wrong but ... You can’t actually prove this because this is a theory not actually an opinion. We REALLY need to kill these types of CMVs where they are not views but theories or opinions But fine let me humor this. 1. Trump the same person in office did not use COVID as an excuse to crack down on dissent or use martial law in fact he very much kept his supporters from being forced inside by doing nothing to actually contain COVID I see no reason he would do the opposite. 2. If a terror attack were to happen it would be immediately blamed on Trump which would can his popularity and make it even harder for his party. Do bear in mind how screwed the republicans were by 2008 3. Trump can’t suspend elections he has already failed on less so far And to top this all off 1. Trump failed to get rid of birthright citizenship 2. Trump failed to ban foreign students from Harvard But will magically do so after a terror attack? Under your view who do you think is planning all this? The hard part is arguing that theyre deliberately doing it. They 100% are creating the conditions for a national tragedy. . But how do we know thats what they want? I mean they can just as easily use rightwing militias to create a tragedy that warrants suspending the rule of law and places the country into a state of exception. They dont really need an enemy of America to do their dirty work when plenty of Americans are willing to terrorize and kill their countrymen and women all the same. So how can we can we answer that they want a national tragedy like that rather than suspending judgement for the time being and understanding that the conditions of such an event are ever ripening? [deleted] Not everything Republicans do is malicious they arent nazis youre not part of the resistance. Go outside. Comparing X” to Hitler/Nazis is almost always a massive logical fallacy as it ignores the historical context of WWI the German economy and the general social issues of 1930s Germany. You’re also including a fairly basic logical fallacy in your argument of correlation equals causation. Firing government agencies isn’t an automatic precursor to your country becoming Nazi Germany in fact Germany did quite the opposite. Hiring yesmen in a political administration is standard across most governments—presidents enter office with an agenda they want to implement so they bring on people who share the same vision and ideals. We still have plenty of people watching guard” such as the courts pushing back against tariffs. There’s no way for me to change your view” that the current administration will attempt to suspend an election as that’s purely baseless speculation on your part. The problem I have with your theory is that all of Trumps actions are far better explained as the result of either pettiness or incompetence. He simply does not have the discipline for such a scheme. His dismissal of top security and intelligence experts is far more easily explained by the fact that he does not like them contradicting him or he had scores to settle or in the case of the top security expert he canned last month it was due to some whackjob conspiracy theorist telling trump the guy was not loyal enough. not a part of a cost cutting agenda but the deliberate creation of the conditions necessary for a 9/11 type tragedy to occur. I contend that they are neither. Every attack the Trump administration has made has been against people or organizations that Trump or Musk have personal beef with. Trump doesnt want to cut costs or create the conditions necessary for a 9/11 type tragedy to occur. He wants to damage those that stood against him and enrich himself and his family and certain of those close to him. I contend that the systematic elimination of large swaths of government agencies / departments concerned with cyber security and threats to the homeland Which ones have been eliminated? What if I change your view to be a little darker? Will that count. Do a search for what city Trump said it’s the greatest in the world hint it starts with mos and ends with a farm animal. Then he got into office and cut funding. Then said don’t do cyber defense against Russia because we’re such good friends now. Then Elon said White House needs Starlink for security Then whisky Pete sent signal chats to everybody and their dog some of whom were in Russia when this happened. Then a whistle blower came out and said 2 minutes after he gave Doge credentials there was a login with those credentials from a Russian IP via the recently installed Starlink. Followed by exfiltration of 10s of I forget if it was GB or TB of data. Then account for the doge playbook. Get heightened permissions on the server. Gain access to the server room. Fire anyone who says no to either of the above. Work nights and weekends when nobody is around. Call me a doomer or a Gloomer but I think he’s not just leaving our 6 exposed. It’s strait up treason. Google around and build your own timeline. I’m just hoping the military isn’t listening to those orders to stop defensive counter cyber. I would argue letting in 7 million foreigners in a 4 year period is a much more blatant and effective way to end the democracy of the USA. tRumps goal is to isolate and destroy the United States of America [removed] If the US can develop an extremely capable drone army especially one with nonlethal capabilities to subdue any foreign adversaries we should use it to topple 3rd world dictatorships around the world and replace them with similar governments from European countries Edit Guys Im seriously disappointed with the responses. The vast majority of replies appear to be in response to the title of the post with no demonstration of actually having read the body. I know its a long post but if you arent willing to read it and provide a thoughtful response Im not going to give you a good response other than my counter argument to that is in the OP go read it. So the whole imperialist United States idea of spreading democracy is good on paper but really has boiled down to spreading death and destruction instead throughout the last hundred years. This hasnt worked for several reasons 1 Soldiers tanks and airplanes cant spread democracy because every person we kill that resists us further pushes the population of whatever country we invade against us. People also tend to become nationalistic for their own country when invaded by a bigger country even if they know their government is corrupt and the US is a better country. Seeing troops of another country walking doen my own street would pisd me off too. I can empathize. 2 The US gets discouraged due to all of the young men and women that get killed in the process of spreading democracy. Its just not worth their lives and trillions in spending to repair places like Iraq and Afghanistan. Even if we win militarily occupation just leaves our military personal vulnerable no matter how well equipped we are. There is no way to make our military asis IED proof. Occupation with human troops is just too expensive. Drone warfare changes all of this. It allows the US to invade another country take out key leadership and occupy it without putting any of our troops at risk. With increases in long range drone tech over the next few years we may not even need to send a single troop into a country we wish to occupy. To be clear I dont think the drone tech is quite there yet. But if Palmer Lucky succeeds and mass produces the automated defenses we need we should have a functional robotic military capable of defeating most countries on the planet only at the cost of money and very few human lives on both sides. So what does it look like for the US to invade a corrupt 3rd world country to clean out the dictators and establish a much better society for the people there? Drone swarms those all terrain robotic dogs that shoot tranquilizer darts and sprays sleeping gas drones big and strong enough to lift and carry unconscious human bodies and large drone helicopters to transport the ground drones and the prisoners we capture. Conceivably we will have this tech in the next 10 years. We already have most of it its building them into reliable machinery for the military that can operate via satellite internet that will take more time. We use swarms of thousands of small drones with small explosives on them strong enough to kill a single human if it lands on your head and explodes. But these are mostly used on equipment and weapons that could destroy our drones and on humans only as last resort. Step by step process for liberating a 3rd world country from a dictator 1 Send in a recon drone swarm controlled by a combo of human operators and AI to find where the dictator is in the country and to identify all of the defenses and fortifications around where he resides. AI can be used to quickly identify faces anti aircraft weaponry and anything else that poses a threat to our larger drone helicopters. We now have a map of the target and defenses. Knowing is half the battle. 2 Send in explosive swarms to disable any weaponry that is especially a threat to our larger drone helicopters. Hopefully casualties are very light here but people may get injured or killed if they are in the wrong place at the wrong time. As the tech improves risk to enemy soldiers should go down but this is war we are talking about an army defending a dictator is likely to lose a few people in this process. 3 Before the larger helicopters fly in and land directly next to next to or on top of the building where the dictator is located we send gas drones in to spray the entire area with sleeping or tear gas whatever is most effective at preventing enemy combatants from using their weapons. Now this stategy may only work a few times before most dictators realize that every single minion needs a gas mask. We can try using other non lethal means like launching tranquilizer darts from the drones or dropping flash/concussion grenades on anybody standing. But they could have armor and gas masks making nonlethal weapons ineffective. The following will be the most controversial strategy Alternative 3 We send in speaker drones to warn any enemy combatants what is about to happen. The speakers will blast a warning in the native language that says Drop your weapons and surrender. Resistance will lead to decapitatiation. And of course they will resist because the first country we invade wont understand what they are up against. So we make an example. We find the biggest gathering of soldiers and we fly an explosive drone at one of their heads causing it to explode. The goal here is for visibility. When there is nobody to shoot back at and you witness your buddys head exploding that should cause a panic. Its likely a few more examples will need to be made. But just like Japan surrendering after the 2nd dropping of the atom bomb eventually enough heads exploding will send the message that resistance is futile and most of the enemy combatants should flee or surrender. Anybody that remains armed and standing dies. Hopefully thats very few human beings in every situation. But if they are dumb they die. 4 Large drone helicopters arrive at the dictator base and drop off the all terrain robotic dogs and the prisoner transport drones. The dogs are equipped with major explosives to blow away any doors or barricades that might be between them and the hiding dictator. Once barriers are removed explosive and speaker drones infiltrate the base this time warning everyone to drop weapons and lay flat on the floor or their heads explode. 5 The dictator is either captured or killed. If captured he is sedated by the robot dog and carried by the carry bots back out the helicopter and then transported back to the closest US base or aircraft carrier. If killed his body is still taken back to US territory. 6 We inform the country their leader is either captured or dead and that any replacement leader will face the same fate. Now comes the part where we establish a new government. The country is likely to be in chaos at this point losing its government. We need drones to take over their media and remind people to stay calm. The goal is not to disrupt their day to day lives. People should still go to work trade should still happen. Any rebel groups or gangs that try to gain power should be dealt with the same way as the dictators soldiers. The US sends aid to these countries in case there are shortages of anything needed. But really this operation is so small and killed so few people the country shouldnt be disrupted at all compared to Iraq and Afghanistan where we destroyed much of their needed infrastructure. 7 The new government we send officials into the country to help setup a new government. Only these officials arent human they are humanoid drones. But controlled and voiced by officials. This is to protect their safety. The US or NATO officials run the government at first. We establish a president or prime minister a parliament and then we start establishing elections. We put in polling booths all over the country and we create a race where a communitys favorite person has a chance for office. They communicate their ideas via social media news and debates. Eventually elections are had and the robot government is eventually replaced by locals. Now the US doesnt allow any status quo or extremist candidates to run. I know this tricky because everyone is going to think we will rig elections to elect a proUS person. If I were the president or leading this operation that would be far from the truth. The only candidates we wouldnt allow to run are the are candidates that will lead to us having to topple the government again. religious extremists people who vehemently hate America or Europe etc. The drone army stays as police until the country has its own functional military and police again which we also help to establish and train. Then the US creates free trade agreement with the new government and we do our best to provide AI education to the population so that it can learn how to better start businesses in this new capitalistic environment and overall how to live in this new country with the new laws and freedoms. All for the cost of 0 American lives hopefully less than 100 enemy soldier deaths and maybe a few billions dollars worth of damaged drones. 8 Rinse and repeat with every 3rd world dictatorship. As the technology progresses we should be able to overcome any antidrone tech these poor countries might be able to afford. And potentially just hearing the loud buzzing sound of drones will strike insane fear into any enemy combatants that we may be able to topple governments without having to kill anyone at all. 9 The US creates more allies for itself we increase the quality of life for the people in those countries and hopefully other countries start asking for our way of life before we choose to remove their dictator forcibly. Conclusion and final thoughts We arent going to war with every single person in these countries. Just dictators that commit human rights violations. This is a cheap and inexpensive way to rid the world of bad people uplift 3rd countries out of destitution and ultimately let them choose their own path. This tech isnt fully capable yet but if we cut military spending on most Those convinced against their will are of the same opinion still. You think an army of droves enough to subdue a population would be less expensive than foot soldiers and would engender less hatred from the local populace is... novel. Also unrealistic. Governments are products of culture. Imposing a new constitution by an outside force like the US did after world war 2 requires the host countries have their entire will broken. By contrast the method the USSR imposed was by force from top of society to the bottom everpresent in all aspect of daily living. That is the only way to force a host nation to adopt and adhere to a new form of government. Those methods are expensive. Is a drone less expensive than a foot soldier? Yes. But you have to have a foot soldier control the drone. You say this as if the US isnt and hasnt already tried this everywhere War on terror all the shit in the middle east Libya etcetc were all regime change. We need LESS US involvement in the world not more. Yall have done enough please stop Culturally that doesn’t work Think how much you’d enjoy a middle eastern style government in your local town or a South American one. Any form of regime change has to reflect the culture that will be ruled. Imposing yours on them is straight up imperialism and doesn’t work so well Many third world governments are there because *we put them there*. Global instability in specific regions is vital to US interests. The CIA is very good at what they do. We also have the tech that if we wanted to topple their governments drones would be primitive. The US taking out and replacing governments hasnt exactly worked well for us in the past. Your solution doesnt solve the hard problem. In your hypothetical you can kill anyone who opposes you. You can take out leadership. You have perfect intel. But you need to rebuild a government after disposing of its leadership. You need a functioning society. you cant do that purely through force and intel. The people of a country need to have a shared vision of what they want the country to be and the interests of people with power need to align with that vision. At least to some extent. A foreign power taking control with ai overlords and dictating how power will transition from them is not a way to create that. this operation is so small and killed so few people the country shouldnt be disrupted at all compared to Iraq and Afghanistan even if you dont kill people and dont destroy infrastructure you need the cooperation of people that keep the system functioning. Your hypothetical omniscient drones might be capable of suppressing all violent dissent. But thats very different than securing cooperation. I know this tricky because everyone is going to think we will rig elections to elect a proUS person. If I were the president or leading this operation that would be far from the truth Even if you dont coming in with overwhelming violent force to dictate that the government runs exactly as you see fit will convince people that you are seeking to control their government. Regardless of whether you are or arent. Force and intel arent the silver bullet you think they are. I don’t know if you’re aware of this but the term nonlethal” isn’t even used anymore because of how often those weapons killed people. Now they call them lessthanlethal”. There isn’t such a thing as sleeping gas. Russians attempted to use it during a terrorist hostage incident and it killed almost everyone in the building. A dose that would put down one person would kill another person. It varies too heavily. Toppling regimes is easy. We have been able to do that for a long time. Iraq for example. The question always becomes what happens next? Id reference Steven Pinkers work on Violence. He shows in pretty exhaustive detail that the only thing worse than a repressive regime is anarchy. Without a centralized government small scale neighbor on neighbor violence quickly grows out of hand. Check out the death rates in Libya for example or even Iraq. You have a pretty optimistic view of how easy it is to set up a friendly regime when that is and always has been the hardest part. Protecting the lives of American soldiers is far from the only reason we haven’t invaded half the planet and overthrown their governments. The limiting factor isn’t technology it’s international law an unwillingness to commit rampant war crimes in the name of conquest and an 80 year track record of overthrowing foreign governments and building puppet states resulting in miserable failure. A robotic dictatorship isn’t going to fare any better than any of the human dictatorships we’ve empowered. So look lets briefly talk about 15 before getting to the real issue. Those are a bit video gamey especially regarding how nonlethal you imagine it going but frankly thats not core to your argument and you could easily just replace these points with 1. Drones go in kill the leader along with anyone fights back and blow up any defenses which interfere with that objective which is far more realistically achievable and your core argument about using drones to topple regimes remains fundamentally unchanged. Lets contextualize steps 15 / realistic alternatative step 1 in comparison to a real life example the war in Afghanistan. Do you know how long it took to functionally functionally remove the Taliban from power and capture Kabul? Less than 2 months. Do you know how many US soldiers died in those 2 months? 7 zero KIA meaning none died in direct military operations. If were being generous steps 15 of your plan potentially save a grand total of 7 lives and maybe a month of operational time. The remaining 2452 US casualties and 20 years of operational time were during the occupation/nation building phase. In sum steps 15 are unimportant because the same outcomes were accomplished at minimal cost in lives and time 24 years ago and with modern drone technology the US would likely already save those 7 lives and 1 month of operational time on its own if it decided to invade another third world country. That takes us to the real issue steps 69. Look no two ways around it the US failed to build a viable long term nation with 20 years and trillions of dollars invested. Every method you propose to nation build is a less detailed version of what the real US tried and failed to do in the real Afghanistan. But with added drones. The only thing drones change here is that the US body count falls to close to zero. Yay us I suppose. Nothing about using drones makes pockets of Taliban resistance less likely to form. Nothing about using drones makes the locals more friendly towards their occupiers. Nothing about drones ensures free and fair elections happen. At the end of the day were still left with 20+ years of unsuccessful occupation/nation building before we inevitably realize we failed and give up. Maybe with a lower body count we stick it out for 30 years before admitting defeat but the final outcome will be the same failure. At the end of the day your proposal simply does nothing to solve the core problem of how to topple dictatorships and forcibly westernize countries. Its the same problem it always was just with a cyberpunk veneer. What prevents the USA from doing targeted killings is not a technological limitation but norms of diplomacy and international relations. Gerald Ford officially banned assassinations Executive Order 11905 in 1976 and international relations have tended away from assassinations ever since then. You think just planting a government will result in stability than you clearly have no idea how different societies operate. Who are you to enforce your ideologies and beliefs on other people even if you believe they are superior? The U.S. should not unilaterally decide which governments to overthrow that role should belong to the UN or since we are speaking about a speculative future a successor organization. Fortunately there is already a UNendorsed norm the Responsibility to Protect which emphasizes the responsibility of individual states to protect their populations from genocide war crimes ethnic cleansing and crimes against humanity. It also acknowledges the international communitys role in assisting states in fulfilling this responsibility and taking action when states are failing to protect their populations. If the US or a coalition of states had the ability to topple governments with minimal or no loss of life the R2P norm would likely be invoked more often than it is today. That is if not for the likelihood that China and Russia would veto such interventions in the UN Security Council. Authoritarian states are unlikely to support operations that replace friendly regimes with democratic governments more apt to align with the West. Advancements in technology will not resolve the deeper issue of geopolitical rivalry. What you list are the least of the problems with the US exporting democracy by force. The US has successfully toppled governments before both democratic and authoritarian btw and with relatively little bloodshed. But even in those cases the US has a poor track record when it comes to improving the lives of the locals creating more allies etc. The core issue is that regardless of what you call it its just imperialosm. In the 18th and 19th centuries Great Britians imperialism was framed around exporting human rights and liberalism. Contemporary US imperialism is just a reskin of that. It no more about democracy than Britains was about human rights. Its about US influence and profits. In other words the biggesrt poroblem is not that the US government doesnt have the ability to democratize the world though they indeed currently dont its that it cant be trusted to do it even if it had such ability. You mean the dictators we put in place? 👀 You mean so Europe can have more competition on the global stage instead of places to rob of their resources? 👀 The US sends aid to these places instead of feeding our own hungry population? 👀 We go after the dictators that have committed human rights violations like the kind the US has done many times and will never answer to because we refuse to acknowledge the international court that convicted us? 👀 Why shouldn’t we put future generations billions of dollars more into debt to kill brave people defending their lands from invaders all so we can bring democracy to the people there like the people in Afghanistan who repeatedly told us they didn’t want what we had to offer? 👀 Look it sounds like a good movie but it’s too unrealistic for me. You should consider rewriting it and making us the bad guys. I hate this framing of things. The war in Iraq wasnt a tragedy because our boys died everyone of our boys signed up for the risk at least. The tragedy of Iraq is the death of 500000 Iraqis whose only crime was living in country with too much oil. The whole conversation of Iraq Afghanistan and Vietnam have all centered around how hard it was for the soldiers who illegally invaded and occupied a foreign country the victims of those soldiers are rarely discussed rarely even seen as human if were being honest. Did you know that Vietnamese children are still born with severe disabilities directly due to our use of agent orange? Its rarely discussed. We only talk about how Vietnam hurt us. Youre drone plan makes things easier for us as occupiers and that will only make things worse for the people actually living in these newly liberated countries. So like 9/11. How different you think that would have been if people could buy military drones? Do you think only the US could afford to make them? Palestine is completely surrounded by Israel. Theyve been getting attacked in every which way for a year and a half including drones The population of Palestine is still over 5 million people. But the US can take out entire countries without man power and just drones? You wrote all that? Congratulations you just spent a ton of money international goodwill and some lives to replace one dictator with another dictator Trump has nothing to do with that. Nationbuilding isnt easy. Toppling a dictator creates a power vacuum and without a strong tradition of democratic norms or significant bottomup revolution by far the most likely resolution of the power vacuum is another dictatorship. OP doesn’t appear too bothered in accepting any counter arguments and more in favour of a black and white morale utopia where the US defines the laws of morality and dictates the rest of the planet’s political direction with no repercussions There is no realistic way that the US could catch up with china let alone develop anything like this. Your entire plan misses that the enemy has drones too. Im pretty sure that 3 is a war crime. You wont get good allies by instilling puppet governments. It may work on the surface but the people will hate your guts. Well the US toppled a democracy in Chile and installed after dictatorship. It did similar stuff to other nations in South America Give a good man an army and he will never run out of targets We need to take care of our own dictator. Thats not going to help the economy... Go to hell. Movie theaters should have gone the way of video arcades decades ago Used to be that if you wanted to play a new video game as soon as it released or sometimes even at all you had to go to a video arcade. Even if a game got a release on a home console the better version was usually still in the arcade with better graphics controls made specifically for the game in question and so on. But as time went on and home video game systems became more popular video arcades all but died out. They still arent gone entirely but major video game release are now basically exclusively found on home systems. And it makes sense not just from a production perspective but also a consumer one. Its much more convenient to just buy a console and then get games for that whether thats buying them getting them as gifts loaning them from friends or even piracy! and then be able to play them whenever you want from the comfort of your home instead of having to go to an arcade during the arcades opening hours and having to pay a quarter every time you die. And thats assuming the cabinet is being hogged by someone else. Plus eventually people started making games that just wouldnt work in arcades like big epic multihour RPGs. Again arcades arent gone entirely but theyre now just the domain of enthusiasts. And even if there are still new arcade games being produced they arent what the mainstream gaming community really talks about. So why hasnt this happened with movie theaters? Sure watching a movie at a cinema can be cool. Big screen lots of people to share the experience with of course theres something that makes going to the theater special compared to watching a movie at home. But the same goes for playing at the arcade vs playing at home. Why are new movies still released exclusively to cinemas for a period of time? Why are people forced to go to a theater if they want to see a movie as soon as possible? Why does this happen in the streaming age especially considering some of the biggest movie studios have their own streaming services? Not saying cinemas should disappear completely but why are they still decades after the advent of home video! the main avenue for a major motion pictures initial release? Theyre missing so many conveniences you would have at home Being able to pause if you have to go to the bathroom rewind if you missed something choose the language if youre watching a foreign movie use subtitles if youre deaf/hard of hearing/learning the language the movie is in. Not to mention being able to eat your own snacks wear whatever you want and not having to potentially deal with assholes kicking your seat interrupting the movie talking on the phone etc. Theres no reasonable... well reason why movie theaters still have the presence they have today. Its about the experience. Seeing a movie on a giant screen with defeating noise in a dark atmosphere is way more different than watching it in a living room. Arcades disappeared because they became less cost effective and people started getting home consoles way more that did the exact same thing on a similar sized screen but from the comfort of your home. If I recall correctly arcade machines had to be specially made for the games involved so they were quite expensive and had to be made custom for each game. In contrast cinemas are as modular as home DVD players. Its a single setup that can be used for multiple different movies. So where arcade machines died out because not enough people were going to the arcade to make *making* them worth it apparently enough people go to the cinema to make *maintaining* it worthwhile which is a very different level of upkeep. I dont know offhand if people are still making new cinemas nearly as much as they used to but I suspect not. The thing is keeping up cinemas is sort of a win for all parties at least all who actually participate. The consumers get to have the bigscreen experience which they cant get at home you can say its not as good as watching at home but thats very much a subjective view and some people enjoy the big screen more. The cinema owners if enough people are going get to make a profit mostly by selling vastly overpriced concessions. And finally the movie producers get to generate hype and extra profit by having it in cinemas only for a while. The only people who lose out are people who dont want to go to the cinema and the only way they lose out is a short delay before they can watch it. In short you asked why movie theaters havent gone the way of the arcade machine and Id say its because enough people still enjoy the big screen experience to justify the expense. Arcade machines were just more expensive and risky because you had to make the specifically for the game in question. Going to the movies is a superior watching experience to watching at home. The picture is bigger you can feel the sound not just hear it it’s perfectly dark and ideally there are no distractions. That’s why IMAX has gained popularity as a superior version of even that. Arcades other than the social aspect don’t offer a strictly better experience. The screens are roughly the same quality you can get at home graphics quality used to be better but is increasingly on par and joystick vs controller is a matter of preference. The movie industry cared more about movie theaters than gamers with Arcades. Movies cost a lot of money and so the artists and people involved in making them believe the experience is different in a theater vs at home. Not worse just different. So they support and put time and money into theaters to keep the option to see it the way they originally wanted it to be seen alive. Many gamers loved that the arcade was a third space to go and game and meet people. But the people making games didnt like the limitations that a theater put on games. The types of games at an arcade were designed to take your money or need multiple tried to play. They were designed for that experience. And game creators were more interested in developing past those limitations so they supported home consoles more and more. You’ve ignored a very big piece of it which is financial viability of the film industry itself. Movies these days cost hundreds of millions of dollars they cannot break even if they are send direct to home streaming. You’d end up with a massive drop in film quality as budgets would be slashed immensely. The window from theatrical release to home Fidel has shrunk considerably. It used to be 6 months now movies show up in only a couple which seems like a pretty good place to be. As with most things the answer is money. You don’t have to look much farther than how much you and/or your family would spend to go see a movie at the theater compared to the cost of a streaming subscription. If the movie can generate enough interest that people will see it in the theater now a group of four people who want to see the movie upon release are spending ~$40 or more compared to sitting on a couch and spending ~$15 for one person’s monthly subscription. I don’t know enough about the industry to really break down the entire economic picture — now that a lot of the bigger players all have their own streaming services it is worth noting that a bigger percentage of that $15 goes back to the studio than a movie ticket sale theaters involve a lot of overhead so I’m sure they keep a decent cut of their ticket sales but a smaller portion of $40 is still more than a bigger portion of $15. How do you like my way oversimplified math? As a consumer I agree with you. I would love it if movies all went right to streaming but when you consider the economics of the situation it makes sense why we don’t yet. The cost of streaming subscriptions does keep creeping up though so eventually we may get to a point where studios stand to make more money streaming but that sounds like an even worse reality than what we have currently. The other benefit of streaming is that yes you may only spend $15 to see the movie you were excited about but the hope is you stay on the platform and keep watching other content instead of canceling your subscription the following month. The theory behind the streaming model is that studios make a lot of content that wouldn’t necessarily be interesting enough to be seen by everyone if they had to pay to watch it all in the theater so maybe your family would have only spent $40 to see a movie from that studio once in a year because there was only one movie interesting enough to get you to go to the theater. But with streaming the hope is you might also watch that weird movie about a duck and then get hooked on the series about and elephant who works as a bomb sniffer and then before you know it you’ve spent $180 over the course of the year. You consumed more content than you would have otherwise and you spent more money than you would have otherwise but the studio also had to spend a lot more money on additional content to keep your attention over the year so studios are finding that streaming can’t completely replace the old model if they want to make as much money as they were before. This is largely why bigger movies still get theatrical releases because you can still get a big chunk of that theater money from the people who are really excited but then you get your subscription money from the patient people who waited for it to come to streaming. In most circumstances the cinema still offers a way better experience than most people would get at home on the couch. Depends on the movie of course. I cant think of anything worse paying for my ticket and overpriced snacks only to find half the audience believe they are also part of the show ie minecraft movie wicked etc. But for something hugely cinematic i.e. Interstellar Oppenheimer etc watching at home just doesnt do it justice. Even big blockbusters i.e. the Fast series superhero stuff etc are far more enjoyable on the big screen. Even the vibe of being at the movies enhances stuff like that. No way anyone is sitting in the couch for 2 and half hours watching Vin Deisel and co carry on and I LOVE that nonsense but at the cinema its not just a movie its an experience. I personally still go as often as I can even if theres nothing really showing that I want to see. I work nights and shifts so often get random days or mornings/afternoons or whatever off and its awesome going by myself with almost nobody else in there. The phone turned off $50 blown on junk food its fantastic! I strongly recommend everyone try it just not all at the same time as me! Completely different thing to gaming as well. Gaming has changed beyond recognition. People want to have immersive 100 hour long experiences or others want 24hour brainrot sessions where they dont have to communicate with anyone in real life. Its not just not three frenzied minutes bashing a joystick at the shops like the good old days lol.The arcade machines will always have novelty and nostalgic value but theyre not represantive of what gaming is any more. Films on the other hand are the same as what theyve always been. Plus its fareasier to extract more from gamers without making them leave the couch these days but thats another rant altogether. So yeah IMO better experience allaround and it offers pure escapism that you cant get at home with infinite things to distract you. The short answer is money. A strong theatrical run can generate hundreds of millions globally in just a few weeks. Streaming services cant compete with that. Plus streaming services are still struggling with profitability and logistics. People also TALK about theatrical releases much more than straighttostreaming releases which generates buzz and more FOMO so more people go to see it increasing the chances of winning awards which generates more buzz and more viewers and thus more profits which is what drives the creation of good films to begin with. The major blockbusters that people see and love can only afford to get made because they make so much money in this way to begin with. Also there is simply no comparison to seeing a theater with a large crowd on a huge screen separated from all the distractions of watching it in your living room or on your phone/ipad. Its an entirely different experience. Yes there are advantages of watching a movie at home which is why home video/streaming does exists. But its not a reason for home video to replace movie theaters entirely. Theres no reasonable... well reason why movie theaters still have the presence they have today. There is an incredibly reasonable answer to both issues. Businesses which arcades and theaters are serve customers. If there are not enough people who *want* to spend money for the products they offer they go out of business. Arcades lacked this market because actually growing up with them they were expensive. Very expensive. Home gaming systems were substantially better value. Theaters well people didnt have high definition TVs and high end sound systems. Even today theaters offer something of value to people for relatively low cost. Back in the rental days a movie ticket was $5$10 and a movie rental $1$5 dollars. You couldnt rent the latest movie and the cost difference was pretty small. That still exists to a point today. The people define through what they are willing to pay what businesses are viable. That is why they exist. Do you have a 35mm or 70mm projector at home? Arcades didnt go out because home video systems became more popular. They went out because home video systems made them obsolete. A modern gaming setup is capable of more than pretty much any arcade. More controls better graphics better sound better gameplay. On the flip side theatres are still active because most people dont have screens and sound systems equivalent to those found in theatres. Video arcades shouldn’t have gone. We could and should have had both I think its entirely a market thing I’ve seen some movie theaters modernizing with recliner seats with food and drink service too while still maintaining a reasonable price. IMO the streaming services + COVID forced them to change the normally uncomfortable seats with maybe some greasy food to a place where they’ll serve u a decent dinner + booze at a somewhat reasonable price while u watch a movie. Gotta say I’m kinda enjoying it but it’s entirely based off my personal experience so could just be sampling bias. Presidential debates are not true debates and have no business being referred to as such The reason I say this is simple. A traditional academic debate requires both sides to present their position to the best of their ability and allow the audience to decide which argument made more sense. It is about using logic to come to a sound conclusion. This is not the case with presidential debates at least not of late. The goal of these debates are to persuade the audience by any means necessary often using logical fallacies such as appeals to emotions or ad hominem. Presidential debates are not about deciding which argument makes more sense it is about improving your own image. This often leads to the misconception that one side won or lost the debate. The reason this works is because many of us are sheep and want to be told what and how to think we want to think that there is an objective answer to a subjective question. A debate is a formal presentation of opposing arguments. You’re claiming that presidential debates are not debates because they are the formal presentation of opposing fallacious arguments. But fallacious arguments are definitionally arguments. Therefore a presidential debate is a formal presentation of opposing arguments and is by definition a debate. Presidential debates may not be typically good debates. But a debate need not necessarily be a good debate. If the standard for something being a debate is only the presence of perfect deductive reasoning then there would exist no logical contradictions and no way for one to win a debate in contrast to their opponent. I mean nonacademic debate for the purpose of convincing people definitely came before academic debate. Its weird to claim that political debates are not *real* debates because they arent as structured as the academic exercise that is based on them The reason this works is because many of us are sheep and want to be told what and how to think we want to think that there is an objective answer to a subjective question. This is the only part of the text I have a problem with. Consider that you are living in a democracy. A half assed one but a democracy nonetheless. Democracies arent meritocracies or oligarchies. They dont rely on leaders who are expert in managing a country. They rely on leadership that the people can trust. And thats a big importance. What would the point of a debate on managing the country be? You think if it was actually done academically people would understand it? You think it can be settled on a single sit through? It would be a back and forth taking months. Thats not the intent. The intent is having the leadership candidates race for trust from the people. And thats intended. As long as you can trust your president to do whats best for the country that means your candidate is ideal. Because practically all candidates would still be relying on actual experts for actions. You are trusting your presidential candidate to seek help in making what you believe in happen. You are trusting your candidate to not go wild after he is actually elected. You are trusting your candidate to actually follow through with their promises. And thats a completely normal aspect of the democracy. Its not because people are sheep or because people want to be told what and how to think. Its because the role of the people in democracies is to pick which candidate to trust. Thats the single duty the people have. Everything else politics falls to the president and his experts. I will counter with this The meaning of things are not static. You and I both know that what we see is not a debate. But were not the ones who decide what a debate or anything is. One thing decides what anything is and its those who are in power. That whole newspeak thing from 1984 isnt some haha funny satirical exaggerated thing its real and its how language and knowledge work. Knowledge does not equal power Power creates and legitimizes knowledge. If those in power want that to be a true debate then thats what it is. As others have pointed out academic debate is not the only form of debate or even the original. Academic debate is only \~300 years old and people were debating long before then. Even if you dont like that there are things like Lincolndouglass style debates that use some of the rules of formal debate but are very much their own thing. A traditional academic debate... Is only one form of true debates. The presidential form is another. Both are true debates as both are instances where people are having a formal discussion on a particular topic in a public meeting or legislative assembly in which opposing arguments are put forward. That is the definition of debate. That can be applied to presidential debates. Presidential debates are definitionally true debates. They are not academic debates though a debate is just a structured discussion between two or more parties about a particular issue or topic or even set of topics. There is nothing about that definition that requires logic or objectivity. Its still a debate our perception on what/who qualifies as the winner is what has changed. I saw a case for this the other day but the basic gist was our ability to judge debates has shifted with the media we consume. Back when Lincoln was in office people read books and had a longer attention span. So a debate lasting 3 hours with complex thoughts to follow and remember was not that big of a deal. Move on to JFK vs Nixon and now we mostly watch television so who won that debate? The better *looking* and *sounding* candidate. Not necessarily the best ideas. Moving on to today with the era of social media and never ending clip feeds you have a population that has little to no attention span and only reacts to the very best or the very worst of content. No room for nuance or interpretation and the candidates have leaned into that. or at least the PR/Marketing departments have its hard to police people on words that are so commonly accepted to be associated with such activities I mean that argument almost made sense but it isn’t called the Traditional Academic Presidential Debate” so your claim kinda makes no sense. 🤷‍♂️ But I agree that they could and should be better. I recommend better moderation and challenging prompts. This is like claiming that MMA fighters aren’t really” fighting” because they don’t use the same rules as Olympic epeé. Recency bias. Debates involving Donald Trump are farsical clown shows. Presidential debates at one time mattered. Obviously Kids shouldnt be in supermarkets Edit Shouldnt is the wrong word to use. Perhaps dont belong is a better one. Its not that it annoys me that theres a kid getting traumatized in every supermarket in the world. It bothers me. I hold the opinion that the human brain isnt designed to be immune to marketing and ads and all that jazz which is why theres marketing and ads everywhere let alone when its 6 years old. From the perspective of the child that cannot comprehend the concept of wages limited resources addiction healthy diet it just looks like their parent dragged them into a place where they have everything and then said NO! I must admit I have no idea what would change my mind about this. It seems very obvious to me that something very unpleasant happens to the child and I cant quite wrap my head around that someome would think that its good. But I do want my opinions absolutely pressure tested. CAN ANYONE ACTUALLY ADRESS WHETHER THEY THINK ITS PSYCHOLOGICALLY BENEFICIAL? YES ITS HARD TO BE A PARENT! I think youre coming at this from the wrong angle. On the one side while there is marketing going on in the supermarket its actually far less aggressive than many other places kids will be and most of it is not targeted directly at the kids anyway. So if the goal is to reduce the amount of marketing the kid is exposed to then we have bigger fish to fry. Which leads into the second and more important point This is the ideal time for parents to teach their kids about things like limited resources wages healthy diet and even addiction. They can do that both through demonstrating good shopping behavior and using the fact that theyre physically in the place where these decisions happen to reinforce the lesson. Just as a small example when my kids were 5 and 3 I would take them to the cereal aisle and let them pick out breakfast and while we were doing that I taught them the difference between candy cereals and healthy ones and how to spot which is which. Even the 3 year old got the hang of it and while they still look at the coco puffs as we go by they pick cheerios or raisin bran. And thats just a direct and specific lesson. By having them there I also get to demonstrate how we shop as much as we can from the fresh produce section and we dont even go down the TV dinners aisle let alone the chips and candy aisle. How do I teach that if they never go in the store? Should your kids be unaware they live in a society where you work and buy things? You want to hide all of that from them until they are older? And you dont think that could be damaging at all? Why is your view only limited to supermarkets? There is marketing and ads everywhere we go. Billboards outside signs and jingles in department stores commercials on TV and radio and thats not even talking about everything on the internet. Do you think we should just keep our children inside to hide them from all this terrible propaganda? I would argue we should do the opposite. We need to expose young people to these types of tactics to inform them and help them form their own opinions. This is the world we live in. Could you cite any scientific journals or studies that show that a supermarket is harmful to a child? I never leave the store thinking that shes just gone through something difficult or traumatic. My daughter asks for things in the supermarket sometimes and its not a problem. If shes asking for food I reach into the bag that I brought with me and give her a snack its important to come prepared or I simply tell her that its close to lunch time or she can eat later or something. If its a toy I can say sorry that doesnt belong to us. Most of the time she just wants to hold it and see what it is which is fine and we just say ok all done and put it back. It teaches her patience it teaches her that she cant always have something. She also gets to see things that we dont always see at home. Its stimulating which is very important. And if she gets overstimulated we can just leave 🤷‍♂️ no big deal. Also shes constantly saying hi to everyone and being social. It helps her to have confidence to be outgoing and friendly. Plus she gets to spend time with me or her mother or both. Theres lots of interacting and communicating going on. Thank you for opening a nationwide babysitting service lol. Ill be by in an hour to drop off my toddlers so I can shop in peace. Counterpoint Exposure desensitizes the children to those marketing pressures. Im a Dad I have a toddler. She does phenomenally at stores and its actually one of her favorite things to do because we took her repeatedly KNOWING full well there was a possibility of a breakdown or tantrum. We did this so she could learn that its really not that deep that were leaving the grocery store. It may be fun but its not like thats the last time we are EVER going to do it. Well just come back another day. Now at 3 years old shes pretty much a perfect angel at the store. She knows we go there to get the stuff we need and sometimes get a few extra things that are just for fun snacks or drinks or a cheap &lt$5 toy and that satisfies her little toddler goblin brain. The earlier you expose your kids to the supermarket and get them used to the environment and do positive reinforcement for good behavior the better. EDIT TO ADD Benefits psychological and otherwise of taking your kids to the Supermarket at a young age 1. It is one of the best places to teach them impulse control. We cannot simply have things just because we want it. We live in a society with rules and the rules say that we have to exchange something of equivalent value to get the item we want. This means controlling our impulses until we have enough resources to get what we want. This also has benefits in that it helps to build our discipline in the future as well because we are able to tell ourselves No from time to time and helps us to better practice moderation 2. They get to see and sometimes interact with other people that are out and about. Children need to learn that there are more people than just the ones they spend the majority of their time with. They need to learn and understand that the way they are with their main people isnt always the way they can be with other people. For example my toddler LOVES to be rowdy with me. Because shes actually been exposed to other people she understands that not everyone likes being rowdy like daddy so she already moderates her behavior to what she thinks is expected of her with the people shes with. This results in her being AMAZING for the people that watch her from time to time. 3. They learn more about how the REAL WORLD works. They understand that the milk and eggs they enjoy dont just MAGICALLY appear in the fridge nor do their favorite snacks just appear from thin air into our cabinets. They know where their food and snacks come from. They know we have only a finite amount and this leads them to being WAY more ok with something being out because they know where we can go get more if we need to. They know it takes time and effort to do so and so it doesnt help them to just outright demand the things they want because it wont just appear. My toddler gaining this understanding helped to mitigate SO many potential tantrums and breakdowns. She trusts that mom and dad will go get her more when its time to. Theres honestly a lot more benefits to it as well but Ill stop with the 3. So my almost 18 year old has never set foot in a supermarket and suddenly has to navigate it from scratch? Seems really weird to limit the ban to supermarkets only as all the marketing and economic things you point are are present in other places anyway. Whats your cut off point OP? Because eventually you do need to teach kids how to use the supermarket or they will have issues later in life when they need to do it themselves. Like maybe 6 and lower sure but 7 is when your kid is going to start spending time away from you anyways. I think kids arent being traumatized in the way you think they are. Kids are mostly fine in supermarkets. Maybe a mix of your confirmation bias and sad kids being loud makes you miss the huge number of kids who are just sitting in the cart eating a handful of cheerios or walking around with their parents. A huge part of the social learning of childhood is kids learning when you can and cant have stuff. They dont learn it instantly so they sometimes get upset but its not trauma its just feeling big emotions in a little body. I think if you spent more time with a kid or two and got to know what theyre like on a daily basis youd have a better understanding of this. What precisely is psychologically unhealthy” in this situation? Is not getting everything you want unhealthy? Is there any social setting where children do get everything they want? Could some of the harm you perceive in supermarkets be mitigated by parents better explaining why they say no?” Taking your kids out in public is incredibly important for their development. You want them to stay home all day because they shouldn’t be out? What if you’re a single parent? What if your partner works on opposite days off? Has there been any thought put into this opinion at all? Isnt being accompanied to a market with advertisement and then having an adult resist or negotiate their desires with limitations an important formative and building experience? One that specifically can help build a childs ability to operate in the world that shouldnt be skipped? Like I understand that there are going to be engagements may be uncomfortable for children it cant or isnt a healthy/useful for growth/formative experience. Furthermore I think that the modern attempts to sterilize life/sequester everything/not have conflict or rough edges that I feel underlie ideas like this are unhealthy and isolated and erodes us mentally. More specifically having bad experiences being upset that desires arent being fulfilled and encountering limits from the people that love and care for you is not traumatic just because it can be upsetting. Its the equivalent to getting a bruise while playing compared to the psychological broken bones of trauma which requires intensive care and attention to heal. Parents should be treating their children with compassion and build tools to help them navigate supermarkets emotionally and engage with them during the purchasing process. I know that not all parents do that and mediocre parents exist but thats a question of how our communities can raise the parenting standards. But still having bad experiences at the grocery store is not inherently traumatic. It would be bad parenting in this situation where you are completely ignored or ridiculed for engaging with your environment or having high variable limits that are broken by bad behavior to incentivize dysfunctional communication etc. etc. that would be traumatizing Children are little humans in training. They should be in normal human situations so that they can handle them in the future. They have to be around people they have to do things for the first time they have to face things they dont know and yes they have to get frustrated by things they dont yet understand. Its all a healthy part of growing up. Supermarkets \*might\* be frustrating and confusing but they are overall a pretty safe place for kids to learn about frustration and confusion. So how exactly does a broke single mother who needs groceries navigate a system where her kid isn’t allowed in the store? We can’t even agree that hungry children should be fed in this country you think it’s going to go for subsidizing child care to placate the minor nuisance of bored/annoying kids at the grocery store? I suppose children shouldnt go to school either because they might get overstimulated or scrape their knee or get teased by other kids. Should they be let into the pantry? How will they learn? I went to the supermarket with my mom when I was a kid and I definitely wasnt traumatized by it. Being told no isnt traumatizing because children are told no all the time. If you never tell a child no they are going to grow up spoiled and they are not going to know what is appropriate behavior. Going out in public stimulates their minds. It is good for them. Also supermarkets arent the only place kids are exposed to marketing. Marketing is everywhere. Theyre going to see it on TV on the Internet if theyre old enough to be on it theyre going to see it on billboards and on the side of buses when theyre in the car. And to your other point depending on their age a child might not have a full grasp on the concept of money yet but thats literally how they learn about it. All of this is before getting into the fact that the alternative is either leaving children at home alone which is dangerous or impossible depending on their age or having to pay someone to watch your kid while you go grocery shopping which not everyone can afford. You seem to understand that kids dont experience supermarkets as we do. Whats more you even said that their brains are not strong for advertising. But here is the thing they dont see much of that in supermarkets they dont go to buy stuff and understand the limits of their capitalist power. To kids is an adventure of shapes colors and words. Some kids dont like it yes but its not because its torture but because they simply dislike elements of it like the walking the sounds the people or the smells. But some kids do like it and thats fine. Most parents dont bring their kids because they want them to taste capitalism. They do because they either want to spend some time together or because they have no one else to leave their kids with. So no supermarkets are not child torture spaces and no adults are not forcing their kids to go for the sake of it just because it seems like the best option at that moment. Youve obviously never had children or have any clue about the daily demands on time that would require a parent to take their child food shopping. Believe me when I tell you that ensuring your household has sustenance is far more paramount to the vast majority of parents than any potential impacts of marketing and stimulation on children which is *extremely* tame compared to anything theyll see on social media. Why does a child not understanding why theyre being told no mean they shouldnt be there? Children are told no for reasons they dont understand all the time. Also 6 year olds are definitely smart enough to understand not enough money as a concept. From the perspective of the child that cannot comprehend the concept of wages limited resources addiction healthy diet it just looks like their parent dragged them into a place where they have everything and then said NO! How are they supposed to learn to comprehend those things if you dont take them those places? Can you imagine a teenager or adult who had never been exposed to a supermarket getting access to one for the first time? How are they going to know what to do? This is one of the most unrealistic ungrounded things I’ve seen in a CMV. There’s zero way this could be done in the real world [removed] where they have everything and then said NO! This too is its own lesson that must be learned. Also how do you expect a child to build resistance to something that they havent been exposed to? Honestly maybe kids should be oversatured with ads while not allowing to get any of it to inoculate them. Train them from the beginning to instinctively refuse ads [removed] Lol. My mom took us to the grocery store with her several times a week and we had no problem understanding the concept of shopping and lists. Kids belong in supermarkets because I can’t afford to get a babysitter every time I need to buy groceries. The human mind isnt designed for X is an incredibly flimsy argument. The human mind is first of all not designed but evolved. But even if by designed you mean designed by evolution the argument is just as flimsy. The human mind is designed by evolution for optimal survival in a social group of a couple dozen living in a semiarid African savanna. Its not designed for a lot of things that it is now regularly exposed to some for better some for worse. I mean the mind is also not designed for differential calculus but we arent saying we shouldnt teach it on this basis right? Now certainly the human mind is also not designed to deal with the concept of a highly available high calory snack and of course I am not advocating for a diet of snickers and Coke. But is it as simple as the human mind is not designed for a Snickers therefore children should never get a Snickers bar? No right? The argument is more complex and includes the fact that too many snicker bars have a measurable objectively negative impact on the human body. And even then the argument is not therefore children should never eat a Snickers bar but rather children should be taught to have Snickers in moderation! My point is that the argument should never just be The human mind is not designed for X therefore children should be isolated from X. The argument SHOULD always be more complex both evaluating additional arguments against X e.g. X is harmful to human health and arguing for a threatappropriate response is the thread so bad that X should be banned or just moderated and how heavily should it be moderated? How is marketing in a supermarket even supposed to work on kids who cant read yet? Have you considered that parents might be parenting when they tell a kid no? Or that the parents might shop in a way to show the child healthy habits? We cook like mad at my house. Why shouldnt my kid go to the grocery store with me to see how we shop for the proper ingredients/which stores have the better deals on which items/etc? Or are you opting to not teaching kids anything and just wrapping them in a bubble to be left at home? Wtf? Imagine having to find a babysitter/daycare every time you needed to make a grocery store trip. I literally just went to the store with my 5yo. He enjoys helping” push the cart. Kids this age love to talk and ask questions especially about the things they see. This this gives you a great opening to have conversations about marketing and ads limited resources wages addiction and healthy diet. It’s not automatically trauma to see ads that’s a wild statement. Today my son and I talked about how bananas have potassium and fiber then he volunteered he didn’t like onions and we agreed that even though doesn’t like fresh onions he loves them in tacos. We passed the candy aisle and talked about sugar in moderation and he got to get a Lindt chocolate in the checkout line as a treat. You can’t keep kids packed in cotton batting away from the world. The job of parents is to mediate the world and give their kids the knowledge and skills to succeed. ETA yes it’s psychologically beneficial. Sometimes more than others. Great way to also give independence. My older likes to have the responsibility of getting things on his own. It good for him to build competence and confidence esp ordering from a counter. In general the answer to something being potentially harmful due to lack of experience be it driving social media use product advertisements and discernment sports activities ect. is *not* that a continued lack of exposure will protect them. Rather it is that harm is often a part of learning and gaining experience and we as care takers are there to shepherd and teach them the what why and how of potential threats while they’re still in our care. To fail to do so only creates adults that do not have the tools or skill sets to face the dangers and harms of life on their own. If anything it’s just as important that they begin learning how to shop at a young age as it is to begin learning to cook at a young age. Selfsufficiency in adulthood comes about by learning in childhood when it’s safer to make mistakes. I’ve gone to the supermarket a few times a week for my entire life in various cities and countries around the world usually with many kids in them… and can’t remember a time I’ve seen a kid ‘traumatized’ by the experience of grocery shopping with a parent or guardian. I always loved going to the supermarket with my mom as a kid. She would include me in meal planning taught me how to shop and make selections based on prices budgets ingredients. Lots of math practice too. Also a child not being given everything they want isn’t traumatizing. It’s actually part of being a good parent. I guess I really don’t know how one sees a kid in a supermarket and concludes this child is being traumatized by being brought here.” it just looks like their parent dragged them into a place where they have everything and then said NO! Learning that you cant just have everything you want all the time is one of the most important lessons you can teach a child. The ideal parentchild dynamic is to show the young the world as it is and provide ageappropriate *context* for what the see/ask about. The ‘perfect’ scenario has an awake &amp engaged parent observing what their child experiences and offering enough of a why” at various stages of their young life to *any given aspect of what they see &amp experience*. The constraints of reality make this more or less achievable for different people and for all/many who fall short on this ‘parental fatigue’ is definitely a factor. Just another one of life’s many conundrums and hard choices to make and maintain. tldr yes they should So children are sponges they will soak up anything. From signs by the free way radio ads TV ads sponsorships at libraries etc. Basically advertising is everywhere. Part of being a parent is teaching children how to react and interact with the world. So using a supermarket and how you react to advertising is how they learn to as adults interact with it. Your idea and general opinion is akin to there are bacteria and viruses everywhere lets wrap them in a bubble. Stealing from them the period of time they learn the most is a bad idea for your physical immune system and your mental immune system. Edit to add my son is 2.5 he seriously loves going gwocey shopping. We use it to practice words and colors. I show him and he helps me pick out produce and meat. Talk about price per oz and other stuff you need to learn to basically be an adult. As a parent I hate taking my child into a supermarket but if shes in there with me its a necessity. Unfortunately it has to be done sometimes. Also I ran out of ideas on what to give her for lunches and taking her with me gives me the opportunity for her to pick out what she wants. The rest of the time Im just dragging her round. Kids need to be out and about in all social situations to learn. They also need to be told no its a part of learning about disappointment and emotion regulation. By this logic kids shouldnt be in public at all because they dont have the tools or skill sets to process the world around them. This is just such a weird take lol Blame the kids and deprive them of world experience so when they need to they arent prepared to deal with all of your complaints. Great thoughts op lots of people have them just need to think them through a bit more 👍 Visiting the store is an important learning experience for kids. They learn about different types of food healthy eating budgeting decision making recipes wants vs needs and more. It also helps them learn social scripts like how they behave at the register returning their carts in the parking lot asking for help finding something. And then all of these lessons can be reenforced at home through playing games like store or shopping. As with an expsoure to advertising be it commercials ads billboards salesmen the parents need to teach their kids restraint. It can only come through practice. Being told over and over again this is a special treat we dont need that today. and moving on. Does that upset young kids? Of course! But its only through practice and patience that kids learn emotional regulation. Also in terms of seeing all of this abundance and not being able to have it how do you think they learn how stores work? They have to be taught. Bringing a 10 year old to the store without ever having experienced one doesnt do them any favors. Can kids crying in the supermarket be annoying? Absolutely! But kids are in a constant state of learning how to be people. And I have much more patience for kids who are learning how to behave than adults talking on speaker phone blocking me while Im just trying to pick apples. I think that using shopping trips as an opportunity to talk about money and tradeoffs is a good thing. A lot of people dont understand how to shop well and it hurts them. So people shouldn’t be allowed in places just because you don’t like them. I swear I’ve heard of something like that being enforced before. I think the core issue you address is likely the extent to which children are advertised to. In this respect of your CMV I would pose its not the supermarket but the legislation that impacts children inside and outside of the super market. There are countries that ban artificial colors in childrens foods and use of characters to advertise to children to purchase a product. When kids eat naturally colored fruit loops they arent being stimulated into excitement from the colors. Yes the supermarket is often a place where these stimuli exist but its just a fraction of the larger issue that is advertising to children. Life is largely an exercise in encountering things we want but can’t have. Best to learn that early. Hey I hear where youre coming from about exposure to marketing for kids but the sad reality is unless youre gonna have a conversation about legislating that degree of advertising out of existence then its unrealistic/ unreasonable to ask a store or parent to enforce this. Especially when you consider that the root cause of all this marketing capitalism is the same thing thats requiring parents mostly mothers to go under resourced in the way of income/household income and childcare/education. Better to start in particular ways like I think California got rid of highway advertising as at large it can lead to some distracted driving. Different places have different rules around advertising in kids content for example. Is this post like how to say that you dont have kids without telling that you dont have kids? Are you offering to pay the babysitter? It’s all part of learning kids need to be exposed to stuff parents need to teach them about it and how to deal with it. If your kids are too fragile to go into a supermarket god help them when they are out in the world by themselves. Most importantly kids need to learn they can’t have everything they want parents need to teach why supermarket is literally a normal part of every day life they will have to deal with. CAN ANYONE ACTUALLY ADRESS WHETHER THEY THINK ITS PSYCHOLOGICALLY BENEFICIAL? Yes I did exactly that in the latter part of . So what will cut off age when children would be allowed into supermarkets? Who will enforce this? How you would determinate age? Would you happy to pay more for your products if this would be enforced? This would create nothing but problems both for customers and supermarket. Humans shop for food in supermarkets and sometimes have children with them. None of what you said matters for determining whether they should” be in supermarkets. This is not some incredible revelation you’ve stumbled upon it’s just weird and dumb. I don’t think it’s healthy to shelter your kid from the world because you’re scared of them knowing about.. capitalism? You can also explain what the supermarket is to your child how it works Parent here. I find it important to expose your kids to all sorts of different environments even if it may be difficult for them at first. Its not traumatic lol So moms need a babysitter every time she wants to go grocery shopping? Sustainable. The antiICE rioters in LA are only hurting their cause More videos of rioters in LA protesting against ICE throwing things at them breaking up slabs of concrete and destroying property... they think theyre part of the resistance but its just property damage and doesnt generate sympathy just annoyance especially after the summer of 2020. In my opinion this is part of what helped Trump win in 2024 responses to these types of issues either seem to be violent riots also safety issues blocking freeways keying/burning Teslas or online slactivism and none of it helps. At this point I think an alltheway peaceful protest as opposed to a fiery but mostly peaceful protest would actually grab some positive attention. Youre assuming that the purpose is to generate sympathy. I think its more likely that the purpose is to demonstrate anger. If politicians dont listen to politely worded letters I *assure you* they will take notice of riots. What they decide to do about riots is another matter but the purpose is a demonstration. So if the Nazis come through my neighborhood rounding up Jews Im supposed to peacefully protest from my porch with my arms crossed and a stern look of disapproval? Come on bud I love it when people that dont support a cause try to tell everybody that does how to run the movement. Is the only thing stopping you from wanting to disband ICE some people doing stuff you dont like? Man I didnt want to become fascist but this video of someone being violent made me a fascist! Ok buddy. [removed] I wont argue its helping their cause but I really dont see how its hurting it. The ship kind of already sailed on illegal immigration the lefts absolute inability/unwillingness to tackle illegal immigration on their terms using their standards combined with their worsening of peoples economic prospects while telling us the economy is great has lead to people in the middle like myself saying fuck it Id rather do it in a more stable consistent and humane way but Id rather it get done like this than not at all. These riots dont make me less against their cause but obviously they dont make me more for it either. Its just a temper tantrum the decision has already been made regardless this is not a factor one way or another. Either economic circumstances need to improve in spite of illegal immigration so people stop seeing it as hurting their economic circumstances or the left needs to get on board with deportations so we can have consistent net decrease in illegal immigrations and not by giving them legal status YoY preferably both. These protests are just the irrelevent people being noisy thats all. Are you sure it would grab attention? Because there have been thousands of peaceful protests going on and the numbers are growing but you aren’t hearing much about that are you? It isn’t profitable to report on the protests so you don’t hear about them. Check out 50501 if you haven’t already. Were approaching a point where more may be needed. And property damage is literally the fastest way to affect change under our capitalist system. Mess with the money and people take notice. Also fuck ICE. People should be burning shit. Edit look at ops account before you engage with them. They know where they stand and theyre just trying to stand on some fake moral high ground. People have been protesting peacefully for some time now and will likely continue to but so far things have remained the same. This is a clear escalation and sends the message that people are pissed won’t be ignored and are willing to stand up and go to greater lengths to resist. To me that is the message here. When needs go unmet and voices unheard they’ll get louder until someone hears them That way when they build the memorial to the victims of the Trump death squads they can put At least nobody was mildly inconvenienced or annoyed by protesters on it As others have noted I think were pretty far past generating sympathy at this point. Stories of kids in cages ICE oversteps and misdirected hatred have been bouncing around the internet for over a decade now and yet there are still massive portions of the country that support ICE and their overreaches. So the next logical step for protest isnt more kindly worded protests its making the jobs of ICE officers as difficult as possible so they have to address concerns. Sure that might also damage public sentiment but at this point I dont public sentiment is going to change. Those that are pro or antiICE are going to be pretty stuck in that mentality so better to address the organization itself. I doubt any protest would be covered or received well. The regime is trying to paint every single pro palestine protest as literally being in support of terrorism not just the individual morons who support hamas etc. They will use any resistance as reason to clamp down until they cannot maintain it credibly Dont forget trump has essentially state media fox news is unwavering in their total loyalty and social media is largely controlled by those friendly to the far right yes Zuckerberg is he always has been So an all the way peaceful protest would involve what? People showing up to stand around quietly while those closest to the front calmly discuss the situation with the police? Your point also implies that the police and ICE hold no accountability for creating the situation or for the way they are executing their mission. Or for wearing explicitly combat focused dress while doing so. Or for being immediately physically aggressive with protesters the second they get into reach. They ICE and cops are setting the tone for the engagement. And the reality is even with this being the case the vast vast majority of the protesters are completely peaceful and work to keep the protest that way. But guess what? Those videos and stories are boring. They dont push clicks or sell ads. You are working off of a limited set of what are essentially government propaganda films and then making blanket statements about people who are trying to protect their communities. Your CMV is unfortunately exactly the kind of outcome FOX and co are looking for when they position these issues and situations to their audiences. But you didnt notice the peaceful protests so whats the point of that? Peaceful happened. They ended with people still getting arrested and even mayors and staff getting arrested and Trump continuing his crimes. Seems like an act of self defense. People protest peacefully everyday. I dont know why you are acting like it is a thing that doesnt happen. This post comes off as weird propaganda like most things on this sub now. There have been peaceful protests against ICE for months years really but they ramped up in 2025 and those protests have accomplished nothing. At what point is violence acceptable to you? [ Removed by Reddit ] [ Removed by Reddit ] Now that this guy has revealed he is a troll that is just trying to own the libs can we close the thread? I can assure you personally that it does generate sympathy. Also how is throwing things just property damage and not resistance? Whats the relevancy of generate sympathy in your view here? Do you think these people are campaigning? Or do you think it may be direct action against their perceived aggressor? Unlawful protest can certainly do more harm than good but I dont think it is black and white nor do I think it is something we define rules for up front. Theres an organic element to it and I dont pretend to be able to define the rules or provide guidance of when a situation might demand something more than absolutely peaceful protest. But indulge my thought process for a moment.... Trump and his Republican party loyalists exploited the rule of law and the existing constitutional framework to strengthen his position and once elected began immediately dismantling the very system of checks and balances they leveraged to ascend him to power. Since Trump took power institutional avenues have almost completely been closed to an opposition party that has all but been excluded from power. Free and fair elections can no longer be assumed. The current administration is openly progressing plans to all but ensure our votes will be meaningless by the 2026 midterms. * MAGA has control of the Senate and a majority in the House. MAGA does not compete against the opposition party vigorously in good faith within an existing constitutional framework in service of the greater good but instead seeks to destroy the opposing side prioritizing dominance over coexistence. * DOGE recklessly purged critical government agencies firing independent inspectors general across multiple departments sidelining career officials and experts and stacking intelligence and security agencies with loyalists to further undermine institutional checks on executive power. * The U.S. Department of Justice has been transformed into an openly political entity. Career prosecutors have been purged and continue to be replaced or resign with loyalists willing to disregard rules of professional conduct fundamental ethical principles and longstanding norms of the Department in order to zealously pursue the presidents political objectives while shielding his closest allies and using pardons to very clearly communicate he will protect people who commit crimes in support of his agenda. * Trump has engaged in blatant open unchecked corruption beginning just days before his inauguration with the release of his bribe and money laundering coin. Aside putting to one side ethical and legal concerns I am sickened by the absolute selfishness of a president who ran on a campaign of lowering prices and bringing prosperity to the American people prioritizing a massive enrichment scheme for himself as his first point of order at the expense of mostly his supporters who bought them and are still waiting for him to deliver what he promised them.... **THIS IS NOT NORMAL.** None of this has ever happened in the US before and it is not a collection of unrelated coincidences or unorthodox approaches born of the necessity of some sort of national emergency. This is an authoritarian regime consolidating power. It is the deliberate erosion of institutional checks the creation of parallel truths and rewriting history and the very meaning of words and the criminalization of opposition. MAGA loyalty built on a mindset that sees obedience as virtue and dissent as treason is now being matched by authoritarian policy. If we rely only on a system he is dismantling before our eyes we are cooked. BUT.... **He has not yet fully consolidated enough power to fully establish his authoritarian rule.** And he is showing signs he may not have the stomach for what it will take if we dont willingly hand it over to him... If we allow the incompetent leadership team he has installed and the jackboots they are deploying to make up rules that only we need to play by while offering us no protection they will get better at it and they will further consolidate their power and effectiveness. And that would let Donald off the hook. The coward must be forced to take the dark leap a true dictator not interested or able to implement an effective government would need to take to crush active opposition. Resistance on the streets is one of the most important and last tools we have at our disposal to expose his weakness and the incompetence of his cabinet. To expose the weakness and disorganization of his masked jackboots who are in over their heads for the kind of operations we are seeing more and more of. **Trump does not have a mandate to rule over us like a king no matter how hard he tries to lie it into existence.** The more people that hit the streets and the more rage they hit it with the more clear it will become to those not yet willing to break with him to see a future without him. What I am seeing now tells me that the resistance on the streets will gather more and more momentum and rise to a level organically that matches his regimes descent into darkness via displays of militant policing and heavy handedness targeting of people not viewed as being a threat or deserving of such treatment regardless of what piece of paper they may or may not have and actual lawlessness and human rights violations or the lack of care not to give of an appearance of it. And that will continue until those acts of resistance in combination with other kinds inflict enough wounds and cracks in his armor so that whats left of our democratic processes can then finish him off reasonably peacefully. I gAvE a DeLtA! Youre arguing with every single person here but the only way you can do it is by being deliberately obtuse because you have no substantial argument to back your own ignorant views. You obviously didnt make this post in good faith man. the whole point is a tool just like any other. Ask yourself this... can you live with your actions? If you sit by and let people get kidnapped without due process... can you sit there and accept doing nothing? how about when they start taking people closer to you? when that happens you will be more isolated... until they get you.. you can use this opportunity to band together with family friends BEFORE they separate and fight back.. I dont want to be known as violent? that is perfectly okay... ask yourself did i do everything peaceful and by the law? did i write letters? appeals? go through the system and nothing was enforced? now... you start swinging fists breaking stuff... you may internally think im a monster! im being violent! that is your brain fighting brainwashing. you were taught. violence is wrong! its not too late you can relearn violence is a tool just like any other. when you hurt someone who is not being a human being grifting wealth cutting benefits aid for desperate people.. THAT is an act of violence. they enforce people NOT to bring out the food... or its stealing ... and an act of terrorism and so on.. they lost their humanity. you didnt.. you use violence... to defend your humanity... your rights... Can.. you.. live.. with.. it? Yes... I defend my rights. i did everything before i had to resort to violence. Read up on history. violence HAS been successful to fight for rights... for peace in the end means... Please... No it wont if you have hundreds of pissed off people a few of them are going to throw some stuff the question is are they going around attacking people looting and being genuinely dangerous? Are they *actually* out of control\*?\* I havent been following closely but from the videos Ive seen they could basically be ignored as a minor inconvenience with some patience. Is there more than that one single car on fire? More than maybe 200 people anywhere? In most places it looks like 5060. Theyve been planning this a long time this is from 2023 And of course this was before the election The people from within...We have some sick people radical left lunatics and it should be very easily handled by if necessary by the National Guard or if really necessary by the military. They arent doing it quietly they are doing it loudly and as offensively as possible for an excuse to creep further into dictator mode. Have *any* of the immigrants they arrested in LA been shooting back? With all this fanfare theyve grabbed \~100 people in a week including the president of Californias largest union. Theres no realistic pretense when soldiers are marching through the streets and driving tan Humvees through LA to grab small handfuls of immigrants. Have you seen something I havent that warrants the use of the national guard? Did the police fail to disperse/ quell them? Are they burning the city down? Sorry most of us arent tolerant of the authoritarian playbook. Especially towards those in our community. Also every single one of your posts has been removed mr thinks youre not here for genuine conversation. What you are saying is like blaming Ukraine for Russia invading their country. You have to put whatever your perspective is into the context of what is happening. ICE is deporting people without due process which is some cases clearly had no justification to do so. The peaceful protesting started right away well organized positive protests across the country engaging local officials legal aid and viral protests outside tesla deals. It is ICE that has continued to escalate ignored court orders to not deport people and trampled the constitution. you want everyone that disagrees with the deportations to be responsible for every single persons actions that shares the same point of view but you are not addressing the real issue which is that ICE has been illegally deporting people with no due process Ill start criticizing the methods of protestors when the orgional issue is actually addressed and the illegal decorations have stopped. Why should protestors be held to a higher moral standard than law enforcement? **If your main concern is the damage being done to *PROPERTY*” and not the damage being done to *PEOPLE*” you should probably reevaluate your priorities and humanity.** When a government violates the *VERY* Constitution that it swore to uphold resistance is not only necessary but ones civic duty. The Supreme Court ruled that President Trump is above the law which is why he continues to violate the Constitution abuse his power and strip away rights such as Due Process. In colonial America OP would’ve hated the Boston Tea Party and lectured the colonists on respecting the Kings property. OP would’ve raged against Nat Turner and John Brown for not respecting the slaveowners property”. OP would’ve railed against the German citizens who tried to resist the Nazi regime and Gestapo roundups. In the French Revolution OP would’ve been outraged that the citizens destroyed the nobility’s property. They think that because they are protesting something automatically is going to change in their favor. Reality needs to sink in for people here illegally. Their time is up. The majority of Americans want people who are in this country illegally to leave. They dont necessarily want it happen the way trump is doing it but nevertheless he IS doing something about the problem. I loathe trump but the immigration problem has reached a tipping point and they need to leave voluntarily to avoid the family being ripped apart as i have seen quoted. These riots are only proving republicans point. What kind of peaceful people who love this country violently attack federal officers burn other Americans property all while waving another countrys flag?? They are on TV confirming what the GOP has been saying. And that mayor is an idiot! She should be thrown out of office. There’s a delusional belief that the left can only win by converting or convincing the right or appeal to low information moderate” voters. The same people who decry vandalism during the George Floyd protests or these resistance riots are the same ones who hand waved away an insurrection to the Capitol where multiple federal laws were broken incited by a convicted felon who often ignores court orders and foments denialism and conspiracy of legal democratic results. No the left’s strength is in riling up its base and resisting Trump’s clear target which is merely anything perceived as leftleaning Harvard California migrants a naval ship named after Harvey Milk etc. The left doesn’t need sympathy from conspiracy brained rotted sociopaths who have no qualms sending people to Gitmo or El Salvador’s CECOT prison in order to win. I understand why people are afraid but let’s not ignore the reality many of those downtown shops are widely suspected to be fronts for cartel money laundering. If agencies like the ATF DEA and ICE are involved it signals a serious federal concern those aren’t resources deployed lightly. California had opportunities to handle enforcement through local cooperation but when local officials refuse to engage federal intervention becomes inevitable. People upset by this should take a step back and actually look at what’s happening drug dealers exploiting the homeless cartels abusing undocumented immigrants and vulnerable communities being left to fend for themselves. If you truly care about justice you need to understand the full picture not just the headline I haven’t seen anything widespread at all. The pictures I keep seeing being circulated are of the same single intersection with a burning car and like 3040 people watching it burn. Calling in the national guard and threatening to send active duty marines for THAT is insane. Yes people are going to be mad and some will be violent as in any large gathering of people but it is exacerbated by this administration overreacting to everything. Saying you’re deploying the national guard and actual active duty military on something this minor is an obvious ploy to get people to retaliate more Nah the protest only hurts causes rhetoric is all based on authoritarian propaganda. An accurate reading of history shows clearly that actions like these protests preludes change always and if the change is too slow escalation speeds it up. Its not the protests that make the change mind you its the tireless work of people behind the scenes who do it so the protests wont be necessary. The protests violent or otherwise are the only way to recruit those hardworking people doing the thankless job that takes decades which actually creates change. [ Removed by Reddit ] First question that needs an answer is what do you define as their cause. If their cause is to slow down ICE. They helped their cause. If their cause is to show that everyone doesn’t believe the lies that immigrants are all rapists and murderers. They helped their cause. you might think their cause is to eventually convince MAGA that they are wrong for believing trumps lies that immigrants are all illegal and all criminals. That is a lost cause though easily proven with data and facts. As much as I sympathize with those whose families are being separated that was a choice they decided to make when coming here illegally. As a minority myself an American citizen I work very hard and to get this taxed heavily while people who are here illegally get free health care and live off hard earned American taxes is not okay. Also I can’t imagine how it must feel for those who came the right way just seeing people cut the line coming here illegally. Are you kidding me? Where in the world could you go and say this is my new home. The USA is and always has been the most compassionate country in the world. The problem is the word illegal. Is it fair to the Spanish population that did it the correct way? Everyone wants change but no one wants to be part of it. It is out of control. Every illegal has the opportunity to become legal but why do that when you can work and not pay taxes????? I’m kind of new here and in the middle. On one hand Trump is obviously inept. And detaining innocent people. Kids are getting hurt. But something that scares me is the UK and France. They are being invaded by illegal Muslims I live in the same hood as a ton of cool Muslimsespecially the women. Best baby sitters ever and the radical ones scare me. What’s your guys’ thoughts on that?? [ Removed by Reddit ] There is absolutely zero cause the only cause they have is to cause destruction and attack police If you think most of these paper people care if rapist in murders and child molesters are taken away youre wrong theyre taking the opportunity to just attack Full stop if this doesnt come to an end Just wait its only the beginning of these dangerous and violent protests. Youre not wrong. I also still think Trump is a piece of shit and making things worse on purpose to gain more excuses to seize power. If there are two gangs having a war you dont have to say one of them is the good guy. \LA native with immigrant parents History teaches that violence is how humans settle their differences. History is written by the winners and theyre rewriting/erasing history that doesnt fit their brand. Those that voted for Trump are inherently racist and greedy or uneducated and stupid. They will always have a problem with protesting whether it’s peaceful or not. I dont understand whats even being protested most countries....that people actually want to be in deport people who are there unlawfully. I dont see the issue Every single human being in this country with no certified legal basis for being here should be deported to their home country. How about that When it shortly becomes gun fights it will be like kent state. Seems like policr and guard people will enjoy killing civilians. [ Removed by Reddit ] [removed] Those who make peaceful revolution impossible make violent revolution inevitable.” John F Kennedy Idiot protestors again getting violent. I hope Trump contains the situation. This should not be allowed. They aren’t Protesting” they are rioting and assaulting law enforcement. Big difference. CA National guard should contact the OH National Guard for tactics and advice from 1970 It started out peacefully. You might have noticed that PEACEFUL PROTESTS DONT WORK. [removed] [removed] Youre extremely naive if you think the trump era ends peacefully. Its not their cause. Its our cause. its Democracys cause. 100% wrong. More chaos the better. Slow down the Gestapo [ Removed by Reddit ] Hard disagree real change is almost always enforced. What else are people supposed to do at this point? They didnt think that far ahead. [removed] Morality is a tool Morality for me is just a social construct which can be manipulated often times by the people currently holding the power Governments kill people in war—perfectly legal. A man kills someone in selfdefense? Suddenly it’s complicated. Morality bends with power. It shifts depending on who’s speaking who’s watching and who’s holding the bigger stick. You’re told what’s right and wrong but only because someone needs you to believe that. Take for example a politician he taught everyone stealing is bad but he does it every day congrats you are now chained by a morality instilled onto you. The politician punishes others for doing the same. But the people? They obey. They believe. They feel guilt not for failing themselves but for breaking rules that were never made for their benefit. I do believe in morality but i think a major part of the population if not almost everyone never developed their own and are just going around with whatever they were taught is that really morality or a control mechanism? I get what youre saying but I dont think your analysis makes complete sense. Like in the example with a corrupt politician its not like the politician knows the secret that stealing is actually fine and cool and good and everyone else is a big dumb idiot for believing stealing is wrong no everyone including quite possibly the politician himself would agree that being corrupt is immoral. Rather some people are just willing to do immoral things for personal benefit. Moreover the negative social consequences of corruption are pretty easy to demonstrate objectively so theres not really any question of whether the politician might secretly be correct that stealing is cool if he does it no obviously that is bad for society and it is something that we should work to prevent. I think really all youre pointing out here is that *talking* about morality is a powerful tool for social control because it inspires conformity which like yeah? Obviously? Of course it is If morality is a tool what is it for? I do believe in morality but i think a major part of the population if not almost everyone never developed their own and are just going around with whatever they were taught is that really morality or a control mechanism? Here you seem to assume its a control mechanism. But let me put forward a far simpler solution its a socialisation mechanism. Morality is one of the many things that allows us to exist sociably with others. Dont kill other humans. or Dont kill unless you have to. is one that stops us from literally murdering all the time. But morality prevents a load of things that are less direct and some which arent even criminal. Like we have a bunch of moral rules around relationships e.g. Dont cheat. which are not enforced in any way in law but are there to try and make relationships smoother. They can be twisted into a control mechanism but it seems like even without that twisting morality/ethics hold a place in our society. [deleted] Im seeing a lot of people here making points I would just be duplicating. Instead Ill just say. This is a very cynical and almost a nihilistic view. They say that hidden in the deepest secret heart every cynic lies a wounded and disappointed idealist. I think thats right. I think whats considered morality can be manipulated abused and rendered contextually meaningless. But I also believe your own arguments prove that there is something beyond these failures. The fact that you see you recognize you are even I dare say offended by this distortion and manipulation of the concept of morality means that you HAVE morality. Its offensive to you because the intentional and wilful misuse of the very concept of morality to do explicitly immoral things is offensive. I agree by the way. It is! My argument would be that there is an easily accessible and inherent aspect of human consciousness that *seeks* morals ethics justice fairness etc. Some people. What we might call bad people. Have trained themselves to ignore and distort these considerations. But their corruption does NOT eliminate morality. It merely renders them immoral. Also hugs. I FEEL your frustration. I dont want to prove you wrong. I want to give you hope. I don’t understand. Is the politician stealing wrong? If so you have a sense of morality that is inconvenient to people in power. Sounds like you just confused morality with the law Morality is a tool Given your other responses what kind of argument could *even potentially* refute your main claim? No matter what morality is whether it is objective/absolute/real or where it came from it is clearly *also* always being used as a tool against people. Wouldnt your claim necessarily be true by definition no matter what else anyone could say about morality? Read about Nietzsche’s master and slave moralities if you want to expand on this line of thinking. I think he spelled out the purpose of morality in a way that will make a lot of sense to you. The appearance of morality is a tool. We know actual morality isnt just a social construct because even monkeys behave as though they understand morality. Theres no way they bought in to our social constructs. So actual morality cannot simply be a tool of power. Morality bends with power. No people tend to bend towards power. Morality itself remains straight and independant. If it was otherwise you would not be able to reason morally in contradiction to power. Every moral argument would break down to who holds the bigger stick and this is easily refuted by millenia of people speaking truth to power. I think you arent separating two different conceptions of morality 1. Morality as an ideal 2. Moral *signaling* and propaganda Take your politician example he steals despite telling others that its wrong to do so. People justify doing things all the time that they know are bad but they do it hypocritically for their own benefit. This does not mean that the *ideal* of doing the right thing is something they disagree with it means that theyre selfish. The ideal of morality is a set of rules that apply equally but in practice a lot of people do use morals as a signal or as a smokescreen solely for their own benefit. However this isnt unique to morality. Id assume that you think science is more concrete than morality more real yet politicians still lie about and use misrepresentations of science to fit their agenda ***all the time***. Ergo whether something is objectively true or not does not prevent the authority of that thing from being used towards selfish ends. I do believe in morality but i think a major part of the population if not almost everyone never developed their own and are just going around with whatever they were taught is that really morality or a control mechanism? If you refuse to think for yourself or read other peoples ideas to come to your own conclusion you will absorb other peoples beliefs uncritically. Again thats not unique to morality. If you grow up in a society that believe the sun is a chariot pulled across the sky you can accept that as a *factual* claim as well and that claim can be used to control you too. I think that what youve said just now implying on legality not morality. Morality might be universal and objective but it also heavily relativistic on some issues but on a certain point majority of normal human can agree that its moral or not. Morality cant be affected by power. Its more to the consequences of your action can be controlled by power. Human still will disagree that your action is moral but because you possess power to deter the judgment you implicate none. It would depend on which definition you use but I think morality can be an evolutionary reaction Do you know most ant colonies dont attack other colonies in the wild? its because they know the resulting war would cripple both colonies but they might still do it if they are starving For most of human history we find making war and pillaging to be completely acceptable theres just no reason to these days because the global supply chain is so advanced Morality is a tool and its function is to avoid living in the same conditions as wild animals. Take a gander on r/natureismetal to see how that goes. The idea is we will restrict ourselves from doing certain things in exchange for you also restraining yourself. That way we are both better off. The way schools teach foreign language is rather silly Hey there this is obviously just a personal opinion of mine. Ive studied 3 foreign languages in school and only one of them actually stuck English. I have this suspicion that in school with testing and memorization you dont actually learn the language you learn to translate stuff into your native tongue rather than speak the actual thing. When you think about it. You learn your first language by being exposed to it relentlessly all the time. You dont actually need to know the grammar rules to communicate in that language you just kind of know? Kind of feel it? Did you learn the language by cramming grammar rules? Odds are you knew the grammar rules before you actually learned what they are right? And then you go to school and they sit you down and hand you a grammar book as to make it the most boring and stressful tedious thing. But that was not how you learned your first one was it? EDIT My view hasnt changed perhaps Im stubborn. Anyhow most of the disagreement comes with the Language takes much more effort to learn it doesnt work the way its done but theres no other way to not teach someone something sauce. That itself is a different topic. Id argue that there might be other things to teach instead. Once you actually begin to pursue the language in your own time youre stuck in lockstep with people that dont so its a waste of time for those who are interested and those who arent. But that too is a flaw within the educational system. As a bilingual and someone who had had 2 more languages at school I can tell you are both correct and wrong. Given the amount of hours you actually invest in learning said foreign language at school the results are good. The Defense Language Institute has 4 categories for the complexity of learning language and the easiest language for an English speaker like Spanish or French requires 600 hours of study with 25 hours a week formal reading and 34 hours of self study a day. Compare that with how much you do at school including self study and youll start getting a sense why what you did at school doesnt stick. As to the point of the first language the first language developed in the early stages of brain development of a baby and child. The feats a toddler does at that age is something you cannot replicate. In fact specialists differentiate between real bilinguals and late stage bilinguals. Its not always apparent who is who but the window in which one acquires a primary language is really small. Typically a kid after the age of 68 will not be able to acquire a true bilingualism. If you learn a language even later it typically is apparent because you have an accent unless you go out of your way to get rid of it. The quickest and easiest way to acquire a new language is to immerse oneself in it and collect those valuable hours quickly. Moving to that country and adding 23 hours of formal schooling a day and you should be fluent and well doing inside of 12 years and till never forget it. If you already know language 1. How are you suppose to learn language 2 without comparing the two every time you communicate? Even if you were forced to learn by exposure you wouldnt forget your 1st language so I have this suspicion that in school with testing and memorization you dont actually learn the language you learn to translate stuff into your native tongue rather than speak the actual thing. this is still unavoidable How would you suggest this is done differently? Teach everyone all the languages at once as a baby? \ But that was not how you learned your first one was it? Because its impossible. Not because of the methods a school uses. If you think the way schools teach other languages is silly you must think there some other more smart way. You learn your first language by being constantly exposed to people who speak it. That is the ONLY reason it is your first language. There is no other way to learn a language that the people around you dont speak. You build the basics and then try to learn it in spoken form. Most teachers even make it compulsory for you to speak in that language in their class after a certain point. All I want to say is if your view is right there must be a preferable unsilly way to teach languages in school. [removed] So I’ll tailor this towards elementary through high school or foreign equivalent. Think about the sciences as an example. Are you expected to work in the sciences after you graduate high school? Of course not. You’re not being trained for fluency in the discipline. The goal is to get you to learn the basics and/or a starting point from which you can build in secondary education. So given that’s the goal the way it’s taught is logical though not always executed well. I think it might help you shift your view if you consider why language is taught in schools. Over the 1800s as American schools shifted from teaching Greek/Latin to more modern languages French Spanish etc. educators goal wasnt necessarily fluency. Rather it was about exposing children to the culture language music food and norms of other countries in the world. Also a key component of American education is coeducational learning and not just mixed gender but mixed class but to be sure not mixed race in all places. So basically no one expects a child to master a foreign language during high school. The goal is exposure. This is a massive oversimplification of a very complex subject with a lot of debate and no precise consensus but theres at least some evidence that the older you get the less ability you have to naturally pick up a language by just being immersed in it. So by middle or high school years some deliberate study of grammar might be necessary. Schools can’t really simulate 2 years of full immersion. But for sure the best way to learn a language it to be where that language is spoken for two years. So youre right and wrong at the same time. I speak 3 almost 4 languages and I think that there is no chance that school could have made me fluent on french. What school did do was set me up so that when I finally got the chance to go to Quebec I picked it up fairly soon after. The expectation that school is going to make us fluent is too common in my opinion. Having known almost a thousand words going into Quebec was very beneficial and exactly how Id teach my kids. To be clear I don’t think the goal of foreign language education in your average K12 public school is to reach the level of fluency that you are seeking. I think for the most part the way schools teach foreign language is by acknowledging the limitation imposed by teaching the subject for an hour for 5 days and that most people’s goal is to reach a level of comprehension where they can kinda talk to someone in that language without completely flubbing. It isn’t to make you wholly bilingual in that language. The grammartranslation method is good for getting students to *read and write* foreign languages more quickly and proficiently. It was developed for classical languages such as Latin and Greek where translation and prose composition was the goal but not conversation. Youre right that it doesnt work as well for *speaking* but to do that you need full immersion which is basically impossible to create in most school settings. Grammartranslation will at least give students the basics they need to get around in a foreign country and if they stick with it maybe even read some literature. Its the kind of thing that will outfit students with the tools they need to get into an immersive setting in the first place and a foundation to build on when they do. The trouble is that most students wont necessarily choose to put themselves into an immersive setting. But maybe some will once theyre exposed to this other culture and its literature.Thats probably the best you can do in most schools get people interested in things and give them the tools to learn them properly once they get to college and beyond. Oh not another of those lEaRn nAtUrAlLy!11!! rants. How long does it take to a child to become intelligible in their own language? The one theyve been surrounded with since birth? Even accepting that an adult can learn faster debatable as the limited active cognitive power of a child is balanced by their spongelike quality and lack of other commitments unlike adults who have to take care of plenty of other matters learning naturally requires a lot of time and effort from all parties involved. NTM favourable environment where you actually get to listen and practice said language with the INVALUABLE advantage of people correcting and helping you like it happens to young children. Without that youre just trying to reverseengineering something that has been engineered the right way already. Actually the issue with how languages are taught in school always circles back to the unpleasant question what do YOU do about it?. If youre studying German in school but all your exposure to the language is limited to halflistening to the teacher in class and doing the bare minimum at home to get a passing grade odds are you wont learn a thing past Zwei Bier bitte and Wo ist der Banhof?. Is it the schools fault? Or is it YOUR own fault for halfassing your way through years of admittedly not very advanced teaching? Case in point I only had English from 6th to 8th grade. In HS it was French as the only option if I wanted to be in the best curriculum so I sacrificed a language I knew Id study on my own. But I did so by expanding on the very solid foundations I had built in middleschool and it was possible because I started consuming a lot of material in English videogames internet and later on movies and music. Conversely I didnt care much for French didnt need it a lot wasnt into anything existing in French only so despite 9 years of formal schooling my speaking/writing skills in French are much worse than theyd be compared to the passive skills reading and listening. Not because school didnt teach me French but because I learned what I needed/wanted to. On the other hand after 4 months in Norway I could already speak well enough to get hired for an office job... The difference is with learning your first language you are constantly surrounded by people who speak it and you must learn it to adapt and survive. Your brain develops around this language. It is difficult to learn a new language if especially if youre only doing it for 1 hour every day in US schools. I mean you can pick up a language at a conversational level through exposure but most people dont have the kind of exposure required If you live in a foreign country watch their media interact with their people listen to their music and generally have to go about living life buying groceries ordering food etc. there youd pick up the language astonishingly quick. Most people only have access to foreign media though and not the other aspects of immersion. The way schools do it isnt necessarily the best but its less resource intensive easily reproducible and testable and works well enough. Supplementing with your own immersion will always benefit you though. Well the problem there is that it took you years of total immersion to learn a language that way and even then you were taught the rules of grammar and syntax before you were considered fully fluent in it. A school can not give you years worth of total immersion. They have you for a couple of hours a week at best. Its simply not possible to teach the way you suggest so they must do something else. Now there will be some methods that work better than others for individual people but the way schools do it is about the best they can manage within the constraints and that works for the widest number of people. As someone who is natively English/Spanish bilingual learned Italian in highschool and is currently in enrolled at a language school in Japan and has been surrounded by various types of second language speakers I think I can offer some perspective here. TLDR below. First of all I take it the main point of your post is that language classes in secondary/post secondary education are ineffective. While I dont necessarily disagree with that in and of itself I think you are massively underestimating the importance of *some* formal education when youre learning a language. While Im sure the same is true about most other countries I can only speak with certainty about the US literacy and comprehension levels even in *native* speakers varies greatly and people who have native understanding of grammar can still make huge mistakes in comprehension and communication. Using correct spelling grammar and vocabulary has a huge impact on how people perceive you and your ability to have good interactions with people and a language especially as a functioning adult. As my father was told while learning English in his late 20s and 30s youre now approaching a threshold in your English where you sound less like a very educated foreigner and more like an uneducated local. Neither of my parents had a truly formal English education so even in their work emails and messages I see and hear things that are definitely a product of that lack of that education despite over 20 years completely immersed in America. Depending on your goals immersion alone is absolutely not enough to effectively learn a language in your later years. That being said despite my family speaking exclusively Spanish when we moved to America when I was only one year old I acquired English as my first language and my Spanish was a shit show until we moved back to our home country 6 years later. The 5 years I spent there definitely had a huge impact on my bilingualism and you can very very clearly tell the difference between my friends who had athome exposure to a language but not true immersion. This is true for my Spanish speaking friends but I think particularly notable with people who have languages at home that are linguistically more different from their environment ie. Romance languages vs Germanic vs East Asian/Sinitic Languages etc etc. Again while the immersion is absolutely an important factor I still think the importance of formal coaching becomes more apparent the more linguistically distant your target/known languages are. Having learned Italian over the course of three years in Highschool took a college level course as well there was a point at which I was more comfortable writing in Italian then I did in my native Spanish. Also the difference in acquisition between Spanish/Portuguese speakers in my class and English speakers was clear. The issue of course is that like anything the quality of the education is very important. I was lucky to have native/first generation Italian teachers but Im VERY aware that in many schools in the US and around the world the people teaching languages in schools are not always qualified to do so. Which brings me to my next exhibit Japan. I have lived here for three months and have as a favor done a couple English conversation classes as well as had language exchanges where its clear some formal education can be completely ineffective. I have heard similar observations from friends who are actual English teachers here. Many of the teachers/curriculums/classes in school here are damn near useless. People who speak good English in Japan have done so through their own interests have paid a lot of money to do so or have lived abroad. Having worked with Japanese people in the US for 8 years theres also lot of variety in English levels even despite 1015 years of exposure to English in the US. Likewise Ive met plenty of foreigners in Japan from those that have been here as much as 35 years and still have noticeable accents to those that have been here 15 years and they dont even understand as simple as Where did you go in Japanese to those who have been here 8 years and have damn near native level pronunciation and speaking ability despite being from Vietnam vietnamese speakers have a very hard time with pronunciation in Japanese. If youve read this far I think youll find that the theme here is that neither exclusive formal study nor immersion is the silver bullet to learning a language and that people goals in learning are also very important to assessing what learning the language actually means. To wrap this up Ill talk a little about my experience learning Japanese. The first time I tried learning was eight years ago. In case you arent familiar with Japanese linguistics theres three different types of characters hiragana which is phonetic and is used for most native Japanese words and grammar particles katakana which is also phonetic and used for loanwords and occasionally emphasis and Kanji which are the Chinesestyle characters that convey most of the actual meaning of words of which you need to know 400 by 2nd grade and 23000 by the end HighSchool. The grammar is SOV as opposed SVO in most western languages which means I sometimes have an easier time reading or writing sentences backwards. Theres also grammatically like 45 different levels of politeness and you do see them just about everyday and it really does make a difference in how you communicate and are perceived. The US Foreign service classifies Japanese as one of the most difficult languages for an English speaker to learn. That should about cover how difficult this language is. While theres definitely people that dont go to school for Japanese and learn it anyway this is basically impossible for an adult to learn without formally studying grammar vocab etc. Ive made huge leaps by being immersed and watching what little Japanese content I watch but without focusing on the studying itself theres no way neither I nor you nor anyone over the age 57. could just piece that information together on our own like you suggest in your post and comments. I dont know what languages you are talking about but if you are learning languages that are linguistically similar sure you can figure things out easily just as I did in Italian and as my parents friends and western coworkers have done learning English. But when it comes to truly learning a new distinct language you cannot dismiss actual study just as you cannot dismiss immersion. TLDR Even native speakers have huge gaps in comprehension and ability if they havent been properly educated. Yes schools can suck at teaching second languages. but for adults sole immersion/exposure cannot fully replace some academicish study of a language especially the harder a language is to learn. Whats the alternative? Obviously the process of actively choosing to learn a language is going to be different from learning it naturally as a kid. And while immersion is the bast way to learn for most people its incredibly expensive and takes time away from their lives especially if youre trying to do it from scratch. And that leaves you with the alternative book/classroom learning. Less effective sure but if youre dedicated to actually retaining the language it works fine. I think schools are good to teach basics but then immersion is where you become fully fluent. Like any other thing the more you practice the better you get. But some programs exist and are awesome to learn a new language at least where Im from. Im French Canadian. I started to learn English as a second language aournd 910 years old today kids start at 45 which is better. The only reason I can now maintain a certain level of conversation in English is because of a program I participated in at 12 years old for us its the 6th grade in elementary school. It was a bilinguistic program. Half of my school year was regular academia math science French geography history etc. We learned one year of materials within a few months. The other half of the year was English immersion. My teacher only spoke to us in English French wasnt allowed in class not even between the students. We listened to music and did tests where you fillin the blank with the lyrics watch movies read books did improv had to learn list of vocabulary etc. Every single day for months we only lived in English during the school hours. The only time we were allowed to speak French was during recess and physical education and music classes. So school can be good at teaching a language but you need the time and the resources to do so. After its up to the student to persevere and keep up with the learning. When I came out of the program I wasnt completely fluent but I was able to understand around 80% of what people were saying in English. After that with practice I developped more vocabulary music and tv are great ways to do so! and became more comfortable at speaking the language. I agree that language teaching methodologies in schools tend to be outdated and not too effective but I do know many people who gained reasonable command of foreign languages in school I think because even with a bad methodology being exposed to a langauge regularly over years in almost any manner can allow you to learn it. As for your case specifically * 3 is too much for your first time learning a foreign language. Youll inevitably mix up words and grammar and unless you neglect 2 the important offline part of language learning where you think or mimic conversations in a language becomes scattered and impossible. * I know most students dont enjoy or care much about languages they have to learn beyond passing the exams and teachers kind of have to cater to this attitude. This is not a problem with the methodology itself but with the setting the only solution is only having students who are actively interested in learning the language in class which is organizationally difficult without reforming the entire format of school which I think is necessary regardless. * Studying grammar directly I think *is* an important part of learning a language. It shouldnt be the sole focus but I think this is the fastest way for you to synthesize sentences that sound natural. I think this wouldve been a beneficial approach for babies too if they had the analytic capacity to understand grammar... The US and UK are similar in this respect. Native English speakers in both countries rarely speak a second language unless it’s learnt from their parents. I think it’s less to do with teaching and more to do with the lack of incentive. English is the most widely spoken language including second languages. So if you speak English you’ll normally manage in business employment and travel Compare that with countries like the Netherlands or Denmark where foreign languages especially English are widely spoken. Hardly anyone except Danes and Dutch speak their languages. Managing foreign trade getting employment and travel is more difficult if you only speak a language which isn’t widely spoken In countries like Spain and Portugal tourism is an important industry that makes it harder to find a job if they can’t at least speak English. It makes little difference to your employment prospects in the US and UK if you only speak English Countries in South and Central America also have low percentages of people who speak a foreign language. Most of them can communicate with their neighbouring countries and with the 2 European countries they have closest ties with I have this suspicion that in school with testing and memorization you dont actually learn the language It’s not just a suspicion my friend. That’s actually how it works. Not just in language but basically every thing. Testing isn’t a good way to actually address someone’s skill understanding and knowledge on any subject. I’d find studies for you but honest even a 2 second google search will show you it’s a pretty well established idea. I’m pretty sure there’s even a name for it I’m just blanking on it. As sort of an example the higher and higher in post secondary you go the less exams you tend to have. I didn’t have a single exam my entire graduate degree. Instead it’s often replaced with papers requiring multiple citations one of which often being the textbook if there is one but not all my masters classes used them to better show your understanding of the topic. As a language teacher and a speaker of multiple languages I think the real reason is because that the absolute majority of teachers in public schools all over the world are not a very good job. They dont get the chance to apply the techniques 100% and that is due to many factors like time constraints unresponsive/disinterested students and pressure from administration. In developing countries one class can have more than 30 students. If you really want to learn a language contact a specialized language school like IH or Berlitz. I did my CELTA at IH and I saw firsthand how good their instructors/teachers are. Btw the questions you are asking are oe of the main subjects of research in linguistics. There is no conclusive answer to what humans grasp first in a language. There are different schools of thought. Kids take 5 years to get their language slightly above the beginner level and they are immersed in it 12 hours a day. If you studied a language for 10.000 hours as a young adult and just reached a 5 year olds level of speech you would not be happy with the results either. The key to learning a new language quickly is to *practice* grammar and vocabulary. Thats why when you learn past tense or something there are these repetitive exercises that you are supposed to go through its to ingrain that aspect of the language on your brain. Its like learning to play music. You understand how a specific piano song is played but you need to practice it thoroughly before you can actually play it at tempo. If you skip those exercises and just watch films you will be learning at the 5 year olds pace. I’m fluent in 4 languages and pretty good at a 5th. Volga German Russian English Tagalog and pretty good at Mandarin. Learned in that order I guess I disagree because I learned 2 languages in school English and Tagalog and I am learning Chinese at a military academy now and they take people to almost fluency in 915 months depending the language by basically the exact way you’re explaining is bad. The only difference is it’s 67 hours a day of classes. The issue with how language is taught in school is its time limitation. And yes there are better ways to learn a language. But it’s not a terrible system. 1. In high school I had 39 minutes a day allocated for learning French. I dont think its reasonable to expect students to become fluent in the allocated time span using your methods so we were taught some words grammar and culture 2. With how Englishdominant America and to some extent the world is and how accessible translate tools are now theres little practical reason to become fluent in another language. The value is learning about other cultures and contributing to a general wellrounded education and learning new ways of thinking. No one from the students to the teachers ever really pretended we were going to be able to go carry on a conversation in a French cafe instead of just padding our electives to look good for college. Most people who want to learn a new language wont be able to surround themselves with the environment that lets you learn the natural way. People have other stuff to do they cant spend 16 hours a day immersing in the language. You cant immerse for one hour a day and not do anything else and expect to learn the language. It isnt enough for your brain to pick it up. If you want to do that method it must be consistently the biggest part of your day and that isnt feasible for the majority of learners unless they are kids. It leaves schools with no choice but to go down the grammar route. However that doesnt mean that schools are currently perfect. They really should cultivate an environment that encourages students to explore things at home but they dont usually. You are biased by your own experience the specific language you studied in your specific school with your specific teachers with a curricula decided by your nations lawmakers. Your view might have varied had you picked a different school had better teachers picked a different language or in a different nations. I am a bilingual dual citizen I would have never made it without the foundations acquired studying a second language in school. My kids schools teach foreign language through immersion they actually dont get taught grammar rules until after 3 years into learning the languagewhich is 3rd grade. So I thinkat least in parts of the UStheres a move away from that model. The down side is that they dont really understand how to conjugate verbs in Spanish. I dont believe that you were given a grammar book to learn a language. Unless you went to school in the 1950s. If im wrong Id be very interested to see the grammar book that a teacher thought was suitable to give to students. If you can remember the name of the book please tell me. If you can start little kids out as multilingual these problems dont come up. But thats pretty rare and if you have to learn a language past age 7 or so its a lot harder. But yeah there are some immersion programs. Not really possible in your standard school environment though. Doesnt it always work like this 1. Get students to a level of english where they understand complete sentences. 2. Teach them completely in english? In my english classes it was always forbidden to speak anything else than english. Where abouts do you live? Not all school systems around the world do this the same. School systems which lean into the memorisation aspect tend to be far worse at teaching. Immersion tends to be a far better option. Public schools have limited resources. Rote memorisation is the best return for cost. It gives students enough of a start for them to selflearn if they are interested. This is the way schools teach everything. School is not about learning it is babysitting with some memorization so they can pretend they accomplished something. It depends on the school. I think international schools in Asia teach English really well. Post 1 Should pride be more political? With Pride season and the recent surge in antiLGBTQ+ legislation I’ve been reflecting on whether Pride events should return to their more protestoriented roots or continue emphasizing celebration and community building. Pride began as a response to the Stonewall riots fundamentally a political act but has evolved into largescale festivals often featuring corporate sponsorship and mainstream appeal. While I understand the value of inclusive joyful events that welcome questioning youth and build community solidarity there’s also a compelling argument that we’ve become too comfortable while our rights face active threats. The tension between accessibility and activism feels particularly relevant when considering how different approaches might serve various segments of our community. Do we need to choose between political action and celebration or can Pride events effectively balance both approaches? And given that our very existence remains politicized regardless of our personal preferences how do we navigate the responsibility of advocacy while maintaining spaces for community joy and connection? I’m genuinely curious about different perspectives on this. Should Pride prioritize political activism given the current climate or does the celebratory approach actually serve as a more effective tool for social change and community building?​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​ . This is a subreddit for genuine discussion * Please keep it civil. Report rulebreaking comments for moderator review. * Dont post low effort comments like joke threads memes slogans or links without context. * Help prevent this subreddit from becoming an echo chamber. Please dont downvote comments with which you disagree. Violators will be fed to the bear. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Stonewall was prompted by police raiding gay bars because they were considered deviants and charging people with committing homosexual acts. Bars could be shut down for hiring gay employees and serving gay patrons. The mafia paid off the police and ran them so they could blackmail people who went. Whats the motivation now? Sure there are still bigots but the scope of the gay communities cultural and legal victories since that era is near absolute. Seems like celebration is the right vibe. Pride should return to LGB and actual pride and not kink. hasnt support for many gay issues actually dropped in the last year? on both D And R sides too. Its like with marvel movies. when there was only a few of them it gained popularity. when there was a new marvel movie every month people got burnt out on it. The general public is turning very hard against trans athletes in girls sports and girls spaces. I dont think reminding them about any LBGTVQ5S+ issue is a great idea right now. Unless its like a toned down more in line with middle america issue. how about a Pride / thank you parade? like thanking society as a whole for accepting gay marriage and that its a normal occurrence to be gay or for gays to get married? we went from please just accept us to kids sex ed should include kink and trans education and its just too much for most people. people who wont discuss the issue Post 2 Should U.S. citizens have more say in federal policy? Would more direct voting make Congress more accountable? One of Congress’s most important functions is to serve as a medium for representing the people’s legal and political interests. This function reflects the Republic” in our constitutional democraticrepublic system representative democracy. However due to the increasing influence of money in politics this medium has arguably become less effective at representing the public’s interests as some politicians appear to be swayed more by special interest groups than by their constituents. With that in mind would you support expanding direct voting options at the federal level similar to those commonly used in local and state elections? For example what if citizens could vote directly on major national issues such as tax rates federal marijuana legalization abortion measures social programs broader federal spending etc.? Edit I imagine the system would be similar to how it works at the state level where a petition could be used to propose a federal measure or if a measure reached a stalemate in Congress it could be put to the voters to decide. . This is a subreddit for genuine discussion * Please keep it civil. Report rulebreaking comments for moderator review. * Dont post low effort comments like joke threads memes slogans or links without context. * Help prevent this subreddit from becoming an echo chamber. Please dont downvote comments with which you disagree. Violators will be fed to the bear. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Direct democracy is unscalable. Direct voting is rife for abuse. The middle ground is something called sortition. In sortition citizens are chosen by a fair lottery. About 500 citizens are chosen by lottery to form a Citizens Assembly. In this Citizens Assembly the citizens are then given the opportunity to learn evaluate deliberate propose and vote. The process usually goes like * A decision is made to deliberate on a certain topic for example gay marriage or climate change or whatever else. * A fair lottery chooses citizens to participate in the process * Experts are trotted out to give courses and expertise on the topic under discussion. * Participants are given the opportunity to ask questions during expert Q&ampA. * Participants break down into small groups of 510 participants for discussion * Participants reconvene for larger group discussions * Interest groups are invited for independent testimony on the topic. * Participants are asked to make proposals * Participants vote on the proposals * Voila decisions are made. Sortition allows normal citizens to participate directly in the decisionmaking process. Sortition also allows normal citizens to become fullyinformed about the topic they are voting on. This isnt just my showerthought. Advisoryonly Citizens Assemblies have been tried throughout the world in my opinion with excellent results. Citizens Assemblies were for example crucial for the legalization of abortion and gay marriage in Ireland. Ballot measures do not reduce the impact of money in politics they give it even greater advantages. Ok I put out a ballot measure to set taxes to zero It passes Now what? Hell no. I dont even support it on the state level. Its impossible for the average voter to have the expertise to make these decisions. I dont think ballot initiatives in California worked that great. You end up with stupid things voted in and then you have to label everything in the world as causing cancer or something. They are also gamed by people with money too. Who has the money to buy the attack ads? Fwiw some of it is attitudinal. All our elected officials and the judges derive their power from the consent of the governed they are our employees. The challenge is that no one seems to report/treat them in that fashion preferring to see Presidents as leaders vs not the top admin of the executive branch or justices as democracy priests vs refs. This stuff where your direct reports eg congressional reps can’t be arsed to explain to you why they voted on the legislation they did is — well bullshit. Every member of the House of Representatives is up for reelection every two years. Onethird of all senators are up for reelection at the same time. The fact that incumbents are overwhelmingly reelected is less a function of special interest groups” than it is the Occam’s Razor answer which is their constituents like them and keep voting for them. The public’s” interests writ large are not at issue in these elections. The nation as a whole doesn’t vote for an individual representative or senator nor does it have the right to. Only voters in the representative’s district or the state for a senator do. This isn’t a function of special interests it’s how the Constitution says these representatives are elected. If a representative or senator is seen as too beholden to special interests in terms of how they vote then it’s up to the people of that district or state to oppose the incumbent. Lets be real blanket direct democracy for every major issue would be an absolute dumpster fire. What I’d actually love to see is something like participatory budgeting at the federal level the government allocates funds for local stuff think schools clean energy roads and we get to actually propose ideas debate them and vote on what gets built. Our reps can keep handling the massive complicated legislation. But this would let us shape the things we see every day. Its how you get people to trust the government again and feel like they have some actual power. Yes more electors more states get Puerto Rico and DC to be a state split Cali into 3 and Texas into five make DC a state. Make it so that there are a representative for every half a million population. We’d fall apart pretty quickly It would be a tyranny of the majority which is unstable True democracy is a dangerous thing. It’s 2 wolves and a sheep deciding what’s for dinner. Direct voting on policy doesnt reduce the impact of money lobbying another avenue for money or those who can afford to buy politics and politicians. I’d be open to very limited carefully structured direct voting at the federal level not because I want a pure democracy I don’t but because Congress has increasingly failed in its basic duty to represent the public. We’re a republic for a reason. The Electoral College Senate balance and staggered terms all exist to prevent mob rule and preserve minority especially rural interests. That structure shouldn’t be tossed out just because people are frustrated but the frustration is valid. I’m going to go against the majority on here and say I support ballot initiatives insomuch that there is a high threshold to put something on a ballot. For example something like 50% of each state’s population or something like that. I have a positive view on ballot initiatives because I’m from Ohio. Without ballot initiatives our state would have criminalized abortion abortion is legal here and criminalized weed. I’m sorry but I feel the average voter makes the right decision without a politicians and a cult of personality to deal with. Most voters support legal abortion and legal weed. These are popular positions. However people still vote for those against these positions. Direct ballots are probably not the best solution. But it would be a way to deal with the problem of parties claiming popular mandates that they dont actually have. The American people voted for this is used too often to justify extreme policies. democracy is fundamentally incompatible with capitalism theres no way they can be reconciled. Of course US citizens should have more say they should have the entirely of the say thats what democracy is. Setting aside the issues that arise with any law being introduced and passed by largely uneducated voters unless protections are put in place Congress will just override it if they want to. Look at Missouri for this exact problem. Abortion rights minimum wage increases and paid sick leave were all recently passed by direct ballot and theyre all being challenged by the conservative Congress. Paid sick leave and minimum wage increases are a mere days or weeks from being reversed. or delegative democracy has more potential than direct democracy. However due to the increasing influence of money in politics And you dont notice the money being paid to influence people against their own best interest? Did you pay attention to 2024? What mode of government prevents masked thugs kidnapping people off the street and selling them to foreign slave labor camps to be worked to death? Cause im at the point where I couldnt possibly give less of a shit about other considerations. My only consideration is how we get a government I dont need to be afraid is going to dispear my loved ones at any random moment. Moderate voices in both parties have become useless sacks. When SuperPAC’s run by party leaders dictate primaries all you get is wingnuts and neutered incumbents. Citizens United is what will kill this country. And here I am thinking that the Senate should go back to appointments by the states. ¿How much more direct can you make voting for Congressional reps Senators and House Representatives? • it is presently direct voting. I agree that the moneychangers” of special interest groups and lobbyists wield tremendous influence especially once they’re in office. The other provisions that makes things advantageous to incumbents is the ability to accumulate campaign funds over time. This does makes it more challenging to unseat a sitting member given their access to greater campaign funds greater visibility greater name recognition etc. But I’m not sure how much more direct the process can be. We can still vote the bums out!” Unfortunately there are A LOT of intellectuallylazy voters on BOTH sides of the aisle. I’m sure there will be a lot of respondents who think these intellectuallylazy” voters are more heavily skewed to the side opposite their own political views hell just read some of the rhetoric shared in this sub. That would be a false premise statistically. I get quite tired of reading about how progressive liberals have more advanced degrees and surveys which say …blah blah blah.” That guarantees nothing! Even Congress and the President should have less say in federal policy. Federal policy should be extremely limited in nearly every area as both the Constitution and common sense demand. Give the senate less power and r/UncapTheHouse to give more equally distributed representation Our democracy is over dude no need to even theorize — https//dissentinbloom.substack.com/p/themachineswerechangedbefore Post 1 If youre over 6 feet tall you shouldnt stand at the front of a concert. I understand no one can help their height but if were both paying $50 to see a show and some varsity basketball player is completely blocking any chance of seeing a goddamn thing its gonna piss me off. Especially if that person can very easily see from virtually anywhere else in the place. Its a sensitive topic but like COME ON PEOPLE. Lets let everyone enjoy the show. ***Edit 40 minutes in*** Okay the comments have EXPLODED and honestly thoughtful and thorough responses and mostly very kind. I understand where everyone is coming from what about my short wife wanting to be close to the artist etc etc deffff a sensitive topic... and honestly valid. For sure a case by case basis for nuance etc etc. The severity at which I wrote the title of this post is still how I feel in my heart every time I cant see shit. Please remember what subreddit you are in this is unpopular opinion. We want civil and unpopular takes and discussion. Any uncivil and ToS violating comments will be removed and subject to a ban. Have a nice day! *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* General admission shows are a lawless land Look I’m tall and I’m sympathetic but do we magically get proportionate leg room on flights? Nope. We get basketball and concert views you get general comfort and clothes that fit properly. So the super tall person should stand in the back and not be with the people they came to the show with? How are they supposed to enjoy an evening with friends if they are relegated to the back? There’s plenty of situations where us taller people can make reasonable accommodations for shorter people grabbing things off the high shelves comes to mind but At a certain point your physical makeup is your burden to bear. If it’s general admission get there sooner if it’s assigned seating select a rail or aisle ticket. Im 65 and I choose to stand toward the back because I am considerate. But if I dont want to I dont have to. Find a good spot on your own everybody else did. OP are you suggesting if someone shorter is behind you then you should always let them in front of you? Surely you can appreciate that is complete nonsense as then youre literally just punishing tall people.. Ye I know. I end up letting short people in front out of kindness and then end up at the back watching them watch the whole thing on the ir phone screen. I say people with phones shouldnt be allowed near the front Do you think that being tall also gives people better vision or something? Everybody tall stand at the back of the room and squint at the show you paid just as much as everyone else to see! Maybe OP needs to start carrying around a step stool. I mean I’m 6’1 and my wife is 5’… I’m not ditching her in the front by herself just to placate someone who can shift left or right. Get there earlier if you want a better view. I’m considerate as possible in the situation but I’m not moving back and not being with my spouse who won’t see if she’s not up front Tell this to the always lean my airplane seat back” people. Can’t have it both ways!! [removed] [removed] You all pay the same price. Just life. The front row is the best place to be. The people there either paid more money or arrived earlier than you. They shouldn’t have to give that up just because they’re taller than you. Do short first class flyers give up their seats to tall people in coach? Didn’t think so Here’s the thing though I don’t care not even a little bit if you’re pissed off. People under 6 foot should carry a box to stand on. That’s the same logic you’re using. You want people who were born a way they have no control of to go without and give to you. Nope. First come first served Kindly gfy with that noise. Buy a front row ticket if it’s that important to you. If you’re less than 6ft tall then don’t go to standing room only concerts I agree. I should never be allowed to see a performer up close for the rest of my life. I do feel bad and self conscious of my height at concerts but there’s really nothing I can or should do about it. Take my upvote As someone for whom tall people can ruin a show I still think people gotta get over this. I think this is beyond the limits of reasonable consideration and accommodation. Im 64. If we paid the same price for a ticket to a show Im going to stand where I have the best view of whats going on. If that means shorter people behind me cant see sucks to suck. Nowhere on the ticket does it say taller people in the back. I’m 6’4 and have been to concerts where the standing room is in front of the seated area. Doesn’t matter if I stand at the back i’m in someone’s way and there’s nothing I can do about it So tall people should have to stand separate from their short friends and/or family they came to the show with? You gimme the picks you caught in the front rows and we have a deal. As a tall person I would let the shorties get in front of me. I also served as a pretty good block for people pushing into each other. Im big and tend to not move. Get a load of shorty over here As a tall person I’ll agree to the following anyone over 6 feet will not stand in the first 15 feet of audience if we can get extra leg room flights at no additional cost. Make it happen OP No. Don’t like it? Get there sooner. That person deserves to be up front as much as everyone else Wtf im 6ft and struggle to see the concert equally Maybe you shouldve gotten taller when you had the chance! Not everyones eyesight is sharp to see from the back rows... I’m 6’3 nahhhhhhh Im 65 why should I have to sacrifice having a good time just to make you comfortable? Its not my fault that I was born like this and i want to but at the front just as much as you do I’m 6’2 and 385 I have zero issue blocking your view especially if I spent enough money to be upfront at a concert. I think if youre under 6 feet tall you shouldnt be allowed to go to concerts. That way tall people dont have to move and short people dont have to deal with tall people standing in their way. Its honestly a win win for everyone! Finally! I too can be a victim! I don’t mind tall people standing where they want at concerts they should stand where they want. But please don’t also wear ginormous Homer Simpson video camera hats like one guy at a show I just went to. That goes for everyone no comically large hats. I’m 6’4” and try to be aware enough to not stand right at the front of a show blocking the view but no I’m not going to the very back so everyone else can stand in front of me. I try to be kind but there’s a line. If someone significantly shorter than me is right behind I’ll generally ask if they’d like to trade spots. What I hate seeing at shows is some dude standing who’s wearing a big dumb hat blocking more than is necessary. Judging by all the comments I’d say yes. This is definitely an unpopular opinion. If youre tiny buy seats instead of GA. If i pay extra from front row yall shorties just need to cope. 64 and definitely standing as close as possible. I paid the same as you to see the show. Being short doesnt win you a prize to stand in front of me. As a woman of 52 Ive resigned to simply not attending shows not worth it. Its not other peoples fault I spend the entire show sniffing their middle back. I remember being front row at a festival packed shoulder to shoulder. My friend and I are just over six feet and the crowd behind us wasn’t having it. The pressure started fast—shoving shouting hands on our backs. We clung to the railing trying to hold our ground. Then people started crawling between our legs squeezing through any gap they could find. The space collapsed around us. One slip and we were gone—dragged six rows back in seconds. Life tip If your sightline is blocked by a tall person step back 6 feet and enjoy the show unobstructed 😎 first come first serve not my fault you got the short genes 🙂‍↕️😛 Any person is entitled to stand anywhere at a general admission show. Yours is indeed an unpopular opinion. The problem only arises when tall people are constantly moving around so the natural lines of sight get blocked and everyone else needs to constantly shift with them. Fuck that. For every time a tall person stands in front of me at a concert I recline my seat when flying. Concert venues need to start employing the photographers who handle school club pictures. I just push my way around them. Most of the time Im head banging anyways so it hardly matters lol Im 62. I try to be considerate to the people behind me but there are times youre just not going to see things. If Im seated and someone shorter than me is standing I might not be able to see. Sorry but youre screwed. Just because Im taller doesnt mean youre entitled to see. L As a dude who is 64 I feel obligated to stand near the back of a concert or lecture hall or anything else that because I already have an almost birdseye view. The only exception that I may have to that is arena concerts Ive never been to one. I think being somewhere near the front isnt as bad but again idk. Calm down shorty. I was in the general admission area for a concert on Friday and there was one guy with a huge afro. Being tall is one thing cant control that but showing up with a ridiculously large hairdo is uncalled for. Im glad I wasnt behind him. In the general admission area we all want to see the band but some people want to be as close to the band as possible as well and will come early just for that. If you dont want to be stuck behind them then you need to come earlier. Wear tall shoes is my hack lol. I wear my XL stompy docs to concerts since I’m kind of short and I’d argue you could even wear demonias/platforms if they’re broken in. Take my upvote. I’m barely 5 ft and I honestly disagree but it is a kind offer when taller people offer for me to go more forward So I was at a Cage the Elephant show last summer it was a GA music festival and there was this girl I noticed had this massive man in front of her and I just noticed if she stood in front of me then she could at least see the screen for the show to be fair tall people everywhere. I asked if she wanted to stand in front of me to see better and I’m hoping she enjoyed the show more there. People just need to be more aware we’re all at these shows to have a good time and see these artists and it’s a better show when you and everyone around you enjoys it. Just a personal experience Ib5ft tall have arrived early to get a good view only to have some 64 push their selves in front of me. Like wtf dude So youve removed the sight impedance of the tall person now you have to deal with all the cellphones blocking your line of sight. Nah go fuck yourself get the early if you want a good view genetics shouldn’t cost you a front row place if you did the work and got in line early Listen here Short King You get to curl up in your airplane seat all comfy like a little kitty cat. I get a great view sometimes. Ill take a tall person in front of me instead of a bunch of people recording on their phones 6’5 here. OP I hope you get stuck behind me at your dream concert. I’ll have a sombrero on I’ve had people be really rude to me at concerts about this and I’m only 5’11”. I get that I am very tall for a woman but I refuse to feel bad for existing at a concert. Sorry you’re shorter and didn’t think ahead to buy an aisle seat or a seat with no one in front of you. Tall person here. Bring your portable stepping stool thug ladder if you will. 3 easy steps pap pap pap and you’re good to go. No If you want to have a better view it’s on you to buy better seats As a short person who has no control over my height neither do tall people. Just like tall people are expected to pay extra for airlines tickets maybe you should pay more for better seats at your concert. As a short person just get there earlier 6 man with a 54 wife. I wont let my wife stand in the middle of a crown without me. I will lose her and she doesnt want to stand there without me. Also weve been going to concerts long before cellphones became so prevalent. Live events have gotten worse for everyone because of this. I would HAPPILY stand in the back of it werent for the massive sea of phones I need to look through just to see the artist. Everyones phones at varying sizes and brightnesses make the whole show pointless to try and watch. To the short people I am really really sorry. Though I wont apologize for standing up front. Small venue shows are usually first come first serve. We are there hours before doors open. Get there early and make yourself your own priority. Its not anyone elses responsibility to make you a priority. If youre under 6 feet tall you shouldnt be able to recline seats or purchase extra legroom on airplanes. Same logic. Get there and wait in line earlier like everyone else. You are not important enough to get special treatment because YOU decided to show up later. There is always a risk with GA shows. If you can’t handle that then you have no business going to GA shows. Edit it is not a sensitive topic you are just a self important person. If you are really so worried about your short little wife then get there early and save a spot for her. Even then you and your short wife are not and will never be important enough to deserve a spot over someone that waited in line LIKE EVERYONE ELSE. Stop going to public events because honestly you really don’t belong there. Either wait in line early or quit bitching You paid for your ticket stand where you want. Simple as that. Sorry but that just wont work. Im 64 and if I feel bad and let every shorter person in front of me Ill quickly find myself in the back looking over the 50 people I let in front of me hold their phones over their heads. If I get there quick enough to find the front you can be damn sure Im staying there and my phone will be in my pocket because Ill be loving that experience. How else do I assert dominance? I forgive anyone who just is tall. Cant control that. But dont wear a fucking costume or hat or put your hair up if youre standing in front. Yeah no get a better seat if your mad Just get there before me. If you wanna be able to see get there early to get a good spot. Not my fault you showed up after doors opened and complained that you didnt have a perfect view of the stage. I’m 5 feet tall and my boyfriend is 6’3 so next time we go to a concert I’ll let him know he needs to stay at the back while I go to the rail Where am I supposed to go with my poor 4’9” girlfriend? This is how I justify reclining my seat on an airplane no matter the height of the person in the row behind me. As a smaller person sometimes the world fits me better but with concerts sometimes it doesn’t. If you are short get there early and get in front of me sorry but no sorry As a 68 man whos been to more concerts I can count nah. If its the floor get their first. If its assigned seats and everyone is standing Im standing and if youre behind me you arent seeing anything. If everyone is sitting Im sitting and you still arent seeing shit. I took my kid to a concert when he was 10 and he had trouble seeing. Should all the people over 5 ft sit in that situation? Get some stilts and stop whining 🤷‍♂️ [removed] My wife is only 52 so should we not get to enjoy the show together or does she have to stand in the tall section with me and not be able to see? No. I’m not gonna apologize for being tall. Get there early. You didn’t choose to be short and I didn’t chose to be tall. But it’s shared space!”😭 So is an airplane and people aren’t giving up first class seats for me to be more comfortable. Well if you cant see move to a different spot or get there earlier. The world was built for short people especially America where the ADA determines heights for everything. Insecure short guys like to talk about all the advantages tall guys have but honestly it kinda sucks in most ways. I have to squat or hunch over to use counters and thermostats and avoid hitting my head on the things that pull doors closed. Cooking is a nightmare when I’m either squatting or hunched over while cutting or sautéing food. I have to get my knees destroyed when some slob in front of me reclines their airplane seat. Every time I fly someone slams the hard plastic into my knees then looks back at me like I’m an asshole trying to block them from reclining when they just bruised my ACL MCL and meniscus. My choice of car is severely limited by my height. People like to say oh that guy in the lifted truck/tall SUV is a douche with a tiny penis!” Nope I’m genuinely not able to do a long trip in a smaller car without a ton of stops to stretch out. Never lifted a vehicle but I am comfy in taller ones. I choose my knees and hips over not being called names by insecure people. Somehow I’m the asshole if I don’t want to reach things for other customers when I’m a customer myself. Go get an employee with a ladder. You’re the 5th person this week to demand I use my height for them. Finding clothes that fit right is a pain. I wear a size 15 shoe and have a 36” high inseam. I have to order most of my clothes/shoes online or just take whatever weird looking stuff they have in my size. All of that to say fuck you for thinking that I should give up the front row spot I showed up early to get because you want to cry about our height difference. America has an entire code book dedicating things to be tailored to your height. Sorry flat ground gives me a slight advantage in viewing a concert. Show up earlier next time. Why don’t we just sell seating according to height? Talls get the back shorts get the front every ticket is the same price. That would fix everything! Wear heels Those fuckers ruined so many movies for me before stadium seating was mainstream Classic UO where OP just drops nonsense and doesnt respond to comments Just step to the left. Problem solved Put on some stilts What are you going to do about it? They make leg lengthening surgery now lil bro Yeah it’s never the same price to be closer to the stage Post 2 French press is not better then pods in the morning My boyfriend is a devoted french press person. From my understanding French presses are supposed to be the best way” to consume coffee. We’ve been dating for a bit and I always have some when he makes it out of the French press but tbh I don’t like. I don’t like the taste I don’t like the sludge at the bottom I don’t like how long it takes in the morning compared to just throwing a pod in the machine. I don’t like that you need a grinder for the beans a kettle for the water and the press all to make coffee. I don’t like cleaning the press afterwards and I really hate when he’ll use multiple presses and leave about half a cup of coffee in each one in the fridge for too long. I am the master of efficiency in the morning. Throw that pod in the machine put the lid on the cup so it stays hot forever and leave. All the extra steps drives me nuts. I’d rather sleep in the extra twenty minutes than get up to tinker with a French press. Weekend mornings a French press is fine but skip me on work mornings. Edit I use reusable pods for everybody worried about the environment impact Please remember what subreddit you are in this is unpopular opinion. We want civil and unpopular takes and discussion. Any uncivil and ToS violating comments will be removed and subject to a ban. Have a nice day! *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* I don’t like French press either. Pods though? What’s wrong with regular drip/pour over coffee? Pods are trash literally tons and tons of trash. Pfffftttt. Moka always. As easy as reusable pods and much better tasting than both. French press is definitely not universally considered the best way”. I prefer a pour over for example. Based on your description here it sounds like your boyfriend doesn’t know how to properly use a french press which is why you’re getting worse results than a pod. An Aeropress has all the benefits of a french press but none of the downsides. A moka pot doesnt need a kettle that can work too. Cleaning is a quick rinse with no sludge the grounds end up like a solid puck. Pods really arent great. I prefer cold brew so we just make a gallon batch every few days. No pod in a machine just pour from pitcher to cup and away I go. Well the best way would be an espresso machine so none of these wins. I do not really mind pod coffee what really disturbs me is the amount of plastic waste it comes with. You can buy reusable pods and fill them up in the morning and then I have no objections. Otherwise I’m with your boyfriend. French press comes out hot and I can make it the right strength and right amount. Pods are warm weak and not a lot of coffee. Mmmmm hard water and plastic Are you kidding? It’s not even close. I have a Keurig and a French press. The pods are fine in a pinch. It is nice to have when I’m in a hurry. But qualitywise the press is miles ahead. The pods are at best mediocre. The French press takes mediocre coffee and makes it good. Its almost like not everything is about efficiency? 1 French Press is not widely seen as the best way” to make coffee 2 But when made well it’s miles better than pods. 3 Your boyfriend might make terrible French Press coffee. If there is sludge to the bottom that means there are too many fines in the coffee was ground to finally. French press should be ground coarsely so that it just looks like a bed of coffee grounds that sit at the bottom. Its better if you like good coffee. I just use a regular drip coffee machine like most of the known world does. And sure a French press or a pourover might make a slightly better or worse cup depending on tastes but its the consistency that I like. I cannot imagine enjoying coffee and being unwilling to purchase a burr grinder. Even if you’re using refillable pods freshly ground beans will make the coffee much better. OP may just be used to awful coffee. I hate pods. Theyre expensive and a huge waste of plastic. I use a French press and love how much counter space it saves me and how strong it makes my coffee. It also takes like ten seconds to clean and I can make cold brew overnight or have hot coffee whenever I want. As for sludge Ive never had that problem personally Get a drip coffee machine. Not generating all that plastic waste the convenience and flavor you are looking for. Pods just seem... Just wasteful and unnecessary. Boil water pour it off the boil what a bit and then plunge. Thats really all thats needed and really a small cost investment. And sure you can say the same for drip methods. Now that is an unpopular opinion. Also possibly true provided an idiot who does not know how to use a French press is involved. ⬆️ my guy try pour over V60 or chemex. immersion brewing sucks. Theres no the best way to consume coffee. You dont have to use a french press. Get an espresso machine or pour over or mokapot or aeropress or any other way. Youre limiting yourself by thinking french press is the only option for yourself over pods. Just get yourself an espresso machine. Pods are a scam and wasteful The coffee might not be better but if youre using plastic pods the press is more environmentally friendly. We gave up both and just use a 12 cup machine. Buy your boyfriend a Bialetti for his birthday. Pod coffee is kinda garbage. Take my upvote Thats awesome for you. Use those reusable pods. I think French press is the most delicious version of coffee. It does take longer so I generally do drip with daily fresh grinds. I think pods tasty watery and unbrewed. But thats my personal taste. And my stupid body gets anxiety from caffeine so I dont get coffee at all anymore so its all a moo point to me. French press doesn’t create tens of thousands of years of landfill trash. Anyone who uses those fucking pods is just like the pods. Than I make espresso drinks with steamed milk at home. We have more flavored syrup varieties than most coffee shops so I find pods offensive and literally weak. I’ve never been able to brew a good cup of coffee with the french press. Skill isaue I know. It’s just a skill I don’t want to spend more time on Pour over Oh definitely. Pods are regressive devolution. I know no one cares but for the record almost no one in France uses this. Italian coffee makers are much more popular here. This got an upvote simply because of the fact we are in unpopular opinion. And I find the pods disgusting. I literally make coffee in a French press in the same amount of time it takes to get a drip coffee machine going. Also its just my husband and I so a French press is perfect for two cups were not a pot a day kind of household. I prefer French press over all other methods Both of you will have to take the L and be blown away by pourover. I use a press every morning. The best way to make coffee in my opinion. Pods create plastic waste and taste like shit. Get an electric kettle buy ground coffee. Yws you have to clean the grounds out of the press but that better than creating a mountain of plastic waste over your lifetime. Try an aeropress! A French Press makes an entirely different cup of coffee then a pod cup. French Presses make a bolder cup with a fuller mouth feel. A lot of people dont like them for this reason. I dont use a French Press very often but I do use a pour over in the morning which is also time consuming but thats what I like it helps me focus. If your boyfriend likes his French Press in the morning thats what he likes. better then You dont like coffee. You like caffeine. Youre supposed to use coarse grind for a french press if youre getting sludge then either your grind is too fine or your press is shite. Fine grind in a french press is also going to be bitter as it will overextract. It should take you maybe 5 minutes to make a cup of french press coffee. This isnt a french press problem. This is your boyfriends problem. Consider buying him an Aeropress for christmas/birthday its much the same technique but faster and simpler to use and easier to clean. Nothing like a Moka pot Personal preference is very much a thing and people get way too snobbish about coffee. I find pods to be perfectly good if you find a few that you like. You can even buy a pot with an auto timer feature and just preload the grounds for the morning...makes perfectly acceptable pots of coffee. That being said if you get a really good blend and actually get excellent at making coffee with a french press a cooking skill just like all cooking it IS better. I dont know that its such a tremendous difference that the time and effort pay off since its still just coffee...but there is a difference if you do it correctly. Coffee in general is just wonderful whether it be pods machine press etc...I dont know that I really care about it being 4% more wonderful if its going to take 40% more time. French Press being referred to as the best option is highly controversial to me lmao Also I can see your argument is more about convenience &amp I think people enjoy the whole process of fixing a coffee in the morning freshly grinding coffee pouring over or making an espresso … the stuff that feel inconvenient to you feels satisfying to some … Honestly coffee people are the wine people of the nondrinking world They always act like there is such a complicated process and how it totally matters that you use this specific device and grind your beans in a certain way yet I can guarantee you in a blind taste test 99% of them cannot tell the difference between something I sent through a $10 coffee maker I got from Walmart and some fancy bougie maker with 30 different features and buttons and grind sizes and all that crap You can just say you dont like coffee. Coffee people are fucking weird its just bean water. Not a coffee person but know that pods are inferior for flavor compared to actual brewed. They might be easier and convenient but that doesnt make it better. That is like arguing McDonalds is better than a steakhouse due to convenience. Pods are great if you need bad coffee brewed weak to generate more trash. Youre right an espresso machine is 100x times better and easier to clean pods or no pods. You can also buy reusable pods. Theyre just little mesh baskets. This isn’t really a case of them being comparable so much as coffee just not really being something you’re particular about which is fine. But it is still frustrating when people insist there’s no difference between things when there very much is. Neither are good brew is the best Given that every office Ive ever worked in has a pod machine and I get the side eye for bringing my own coffee and using an aeropress this is not an unpopular opinion. I use an aeropress ditched the French press about 5 years ago but I also only drink one cup of coffee a day Im definitely not a coffee snob but those pods are just not in the same league as French press coffee. Instant coffee is efficient. When I still drank coffee it was only the cezve for me. Convenient for adding some cinnamon and nutmeg as well. I have a drip coffee maker with a builtin burr mill grinder. Good fresh coffee every time without the wait from a press. The hopper holds enough beans for quite a few pots so in the morning I just throw water in the machine add a filter hit the button and walk away. Although lately Ive been doing tea instead because the crash from coffee is just a lot worse. xD Maybe the hot take here is that it sounds like your boyfriend isnt really that good at making french press? Sludge indicates either 1 he weirdly likes it or 2 that the grind is way too coarse. If it tastes worse than pod coffee theres also something else going on that isnt right. Ive always found that pod coffee especially the reusable kind to be flavorless and too weak even with the finest grind my grinder was cable of. That said understand the time aspect there are optimizations surely I have a water kettle that maintains a water temp and barely uses any power to do it but even with those its a good bit of extra time in the morning versus just using a pod. Lastly the cleaning issue has little to do with french press and everything to do with your BF just not cleaning up after himself. That means youre just lazy. French press is more flavorful because you get the oils that would be absorbed by the filter. It does NOT take twenty minutes to prepare a press the longest part of it is heating the water. Your dumb pods create a titanic amount of waste and atop it all I dont like my coffee to taste like plastic. I mean I like coffee not just coffee flavored water. But to each their own. Caffeine junkies being junkies. Wait until meet a barista who thinks they know exactly how everyone should want caffeine. Used a Nespresso for years. Switched to French press and Aeropress. Never going back. Get yourself a Moka Pot. Best coffee You or your boyfriend are using bad coffee or you simply dont have enough experience with a wide variety of coffee to be able to discern good quality from poor quality. I would personally say that pourover is the best way to prepare coffee but French press is or has the capacity to be far superior to any pod. I grind my own beans that I keep in an airtight container and then throw them into a single cup drip coffee maker that brews while I take a shower. I find it to be the best balance between quality and convenience I dont drink coffee. Ive tried for several years especially working long hours on boats. I had to learn how to use a French press for the captain. My best friend is an absolute coffee snob. I dont drink but I can absolutely smell a difference. When she makes coffee it smells like a cafe. I love the aroma. My roommate uses K cups. Whenever she makes coffee it smells like wet dog. I hate it. I drink a generic instant in the morning because Im in a hurry. I dont know where it comes from but its way WAY better than Folgiers or Nescafe barf You can take one part of the process out by not buying whole beans. And cleaning out a French press isn’t much worse than cleaning out a reusable pod. I don’t know why he has multiple and why he puts them in the fridge. That’s just weird. Since you are apparently using reusable pods youre filling them yourself with what is probably fresher coffee though maybe not if youre unwilling to grind beans and almost certainly better quality coffee than most single use pods. The prefilled ones you buy at the store that MOST I mean far and away most people are using your 90% number is complete BS are absolutely nasty compared to french press. Your coffee is probably not that far from a french press in quality especially if your man is leaving it in the fridge for days to get around to it he also probably isnt taking it as seriously weigh coffee steep timer high end grinder for even grind as a lot of french press people and isnt making the best example. I mostly prefer my French press for cleanliness though. No water in lines going mildewy every piece accessible for cleaning. And for low waste I have used the same French press for 15 years no one is getting 15 years out of a kuerig thats made of a bunch of plastic and electronics to boot. Pods from the store taste horrible and are a load if plastic waste if you drink lots of coffee. I prefer just a normal coffee machine that makes a pot of 12 small cups at once. Prepare the day before and launch when you wake up. 2minutes and you got fresh coffee. I noticed you use reusable pods so thats good. My conclusion Meh aanyone has there faults and your boyfriend having his coffee in a certain way sounds like a very minor thing as long as he doesnt make to much of a mess. I make pour overs. Thats the best way to consume coffee. You control the temperature of the water control the pour and release the CO2 The best way is the way that tastes best for you. Pods are a waste of resources though The environmental impact is the only downside to k cups for me. I’m not a coffee snob but there is plenty of coffee I find shitty especially most diner coffee. K cups are generally pretty good to me. NGL I use a French press because it taste better and is faster. I just set it up and my kettle the night before and in the time my Keurig can brew two cups I can have a full pot. A simple pourover tastes better in my opinion. I’m keeping my grinder though. Post 3 Waffle House is terrible. Im not talking about the people or the fights or the locations. Im talking about the food and the cleanliness. Never have I been to a WH that the tables and floors werent sticky like they put syrup in the mop water and used it to wipe the tables. And what isnt sticky is greasy. And the smell. Old garbage rotting grease backed up plumbing and moldy air ducts cant hide the back door propped open where the smell of the old cigarettes from the staff chain smoking constantly would make a seagull vomit. And the food. If it isnt eggs and bacon its not edible and even then the chances of getting the eggs and bacon cooked the way you want them are slim to none and slim left town. The pancakes are lumpy the grits are undercooked the ham is burnt the steaks are cut with a deli slicer set on see thru the sausage is from WWII and the waffles at Waffle House? WORST THING ON THE MENU! I hate McDonalds but I rather have a Big Breakfast than eat at Waffle House. Please remember what subreddit you are in this is unpopular opinion. We want civil and unpopular takes and discussion. Any uncivil and ToS violating comments will be removed and subject to a ban. Have a nice day! *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* I dont care what subreddit this is HOW DARE YOU TALK SHITE ABOUT THE HOLY LAND Unpopular but also misguided I think. Im not gonna call it good food but it is the right food when thats what youre craving. More than once Ive driven by one and thought man I could really go for some smothered covered hash browns. The same way you might drive by McDonalds and crave a cheeseburger. That isnt good food either but Ill be damned if it doesnt hit the spot once a month. Their food still slaps you don’t go to waffle house for the food. you go for the memories after a long night. there’s always something going down at a waffle house Its funny because I used to feel this way. It is certainly this case especially after a rush of people but after deciding to go during slow hours after midnight its actually a really nice dining experience. And the food. If it isnt eggs and bacon its not edible and even then the chances of getting the eggs and bacon cooked the way you want them are slim to none and slim left town. The food is actually cooked by individual cooks so if the food is like this its mostly because of the cook and wherever they locally source their product. Ive experienced this but not at the majority of Waffle House Ive been to. Most have good food and is reasonably priced though I also dont expect gourmet food from any Waffle House my expectations are low in that department. You’ve greatly misunderstood Waffle House. My Waffle House is always clean and the food is always at minimum okay but I understand quality all varies so I won’t really comment on those. You go to Waffle House for the vibe nothing hits quite like chilling in a Waffle House at two in the morning with your friends. Me and some friends go often enough maybe 3 times a month l and th night crew is pretty consistent so it’s nice to see a lot of the same people working and clearly we’re doing something right because they give us free shit sometimes. Also I feel like your Waffle House in particular must just be ass if you think those waffles are the worse thing on the menu. Didn’t realize people went to waffle house expecting more than the bare minimum Nobody has EVER been to a waffle house because it was good. Thats where you ended up. Youre not sure how you ended up there but you did. Its pretty bad but dude if you want breakfast at 3am after a drunken night so clutch I like watching the fights with some food WH has phenomenal chocolate chip waffles and you can’t convince me otherwise People who eat at the Waffle House know what they are getting. This is just a totally misunderstand of what Waffle House is… you don’t go because the food is good. You go because you’re high as shit and it’s 2 in the morning and you want to go someplace where you can sit in a booth and laugh with your friends and stuff your face with cheesy greasy crap They don’t serve pancakes. My friend. Nobody ever choses to go to Waffle House. Its never the destination but is always the welcome refuge. She will always be there to welcome you with her warm motherly arms when you need her the most. Delete this shit It sounds like someone ate at the Waffle House without being wasted. Bro you are high af and its 3am. Where else you gonna go? If it isnt eggs and bacon I hate McDonalds but I rather have a Big Breakfast than eat at Waffle House. I would rather eat bacon and eggs buy a guy that cooks hundreds of eggs a day than to eat heated up egg mix from a bag in McDonalds. This may be unpopular but its correct. The food is low quality. It used to be cheap but now its just overpriced cheap food. No thanks. That’s not an unpopular opinion. When I was in college it was the only place to get food after the one bar in town closed. We all knew it was gross but if you were drunk or high with the munchies that was your only food option other than cooking of course. We also had a lot of drunk late nights cooking too though. 💯 agree!! Flavorless crap you have to drown in sugar and syrup to choke down Post 4 pickles are really really bad pickles are sour and gross. a whole shelf at the grocery store is dedicated to this weird jarred liquid pickled shit and people will swear their love for pickles on their moms lives and honestly i feel like im just not in on the joke? i have tried it and its just sour and a bad crunch texture and apparently it used to be a cucumber which actually tastes good?? and its sold in different colours and shit and all of them look gross!! also a glass jar with liquid is inefficient and risky for grocery shopping I am a grocery delivery driver and any order with pickles is more difficult due to the risk of it breaking. its also less convenient to own and usually ends up as a jar of green liquid taking up space in the fridge. i seriously cant stand this fucking vegetable or whatever Please remember what subreddit you are in this is unpopular opinion. We want civil and unpopular takes and discussion. Any uncivil and ToS violating comments will be removed and subject to a ban. Have a nice day! *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* You know what’s really really bad? When I don’t have any pickles Pickles are yummy. Espesh on a burger. Love them. Have you tried the refrigerated ones? Theyre way better. Crunchy and with flavors other than salt. Theyre still salty though. Clausen. I drink pickle juice straight I love pickles so much. There’s a cologne that is called santal 33 that smells like pickles. I put pickles on just about anything to spruce it up and make diy pickles when I’m in the mood for fresh” pickles. I ask for EXTRA pickles on my fast food and expect a got dam fistfkingfull of sliced green crunch. Upvote for you because I disagree so hard. Good one. Upvote for a truly unpopular opinion I hate cucumbers but I love pickles. I hate bell peppers but love giardiniera. Honestly I love anything pickled. ETA except beats. I can’t stand picketed beats. Upvote because I disagree. Pickles are elite. Literal cucumbers that went through something and came out better. I load mine with garlic and hot peppers because duh. Also yes I will pay extra for the glass jar. Glass is the superior material. It makes me feel like I’m participating in civilization instead of slowly merging with landfill. I swear by pickles when you’re hungover. Btw the refrigerated claussen pickles beats all others. Pickled foods are good for your gut though? I eat sauerkraut every day Cucumbers don’t taste like anything though… Google pickle surprise IYKYK Try fermenting them. Zero vinegar. It’s completely different. It’s also easy brine spices dill and peppers work well. I haven’t bought any lime green shit pickles in years. Agree with you most are absolute ass. Pickles come in many flavors and textures Sorry your taste buds don’t enjoy it. Pickles are best to cheese fondue! And Im not swiss yet... Sour pickles are gross. Dill pickles are gross great. ! Pickle in a Pouch are awesome There are different types of pickle you can pick up at the grocery store. It sounds like you are talking about dill pickles. If that’s not your jam there are sweet pickles and bread and butter pickles. So wrong it almost seems right lol You should rethink your career path if a jar of pickles makes your job difficult and risky. Hate em too If I was stuck in a room with Hitler Bin Laden and a pickle... and only had a gun with 2 bullets ... Id shoot the pickle twice. And here I am over here drinking pickle juice out of the jar before going to bed… I know!! I saw one breaking into a house down the street. I was shocked to know they’d gotten this bad Deep fried pickles like at Texas Roadhouse… OMG! I cannot get enough. Pickles should be deported along with the corpse of Henry kissinger Fresh cucumber is delicious. Pickles are disgusting. No discussion. Take my upvote. Theres nothing worst than pickles on a burger Anything pickled is disgusting Post 5 There’s no such thing as women’s perfume or men’s perfume Fragrance doesn’t have a gender. It’s chemicals and oils made to smell good. The whole idea of this is for men” and that’s for women” is just marketing usually tied to outdated gender roles. It’s about what suits your vibe and preference not what the label says. Please remember what subreddit you are in this is unpopular opinion. We want civil and unpopular takes and discussion. Any uncivil and ToS violating comments will be removed and subject to a ban. Have a nice day! *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* You could say this about literally any men or womens product that isnt directly linked to the different physiology of the two sexes. Are you sure? The fragrance industry has been insisting for decades that men smell like musky spices and women smell like cotton candy. Could they be wrong? There are definitely things that are attributed to one gender or another. Like if youre a guy how many nights have you one out in a miniskirt croptop and high heels? I mean yes and no but if a certain gender wears more floral youll naturally associate floral as feminine scents. Its not that the scent is feminine its that so many females wear it they make it into a feminine scent I was thinking of making a perfume that smelled like gasoline cigars and leather. Do you think women would like it? You could say this about anything. The world targets things towards certain genders because those tend to be what’s either required or desirable for that gender. Sweet perfumes are targeted towards females as they’re considered pretty. Musky and spices are targeted towards males as they’re considered less feminine and more desirable and pleasing to a man. No one says you can’t buy the other products but to say perfume doesn’t have a gender target is wrong. There is a bunch of unisex products. I’d agree. Perfume is such a personal thing. What you like and how your body chemistry can affect the scent. I’m female and I’ve worn what might be called a male fragrance. I liked it. When you study the art of perfume making you learn a lot. Fragrance is for everyone. Today on r/statingtheobvious You’re so close to figuring out that people have preferences Yes there is. As you said what suits my vibe and preference. So if Im a man the label says mans perfume Ill buy the product. Or if I wanted masculine man perfume Id look for a perfume thats marketed towards masculine men. Its pretty rare for a person to know exactly what they want in their perfumes and most people cant tell the difference between specific scents if the scent is not strong or isolated enough. So brands and labels is a very good way to help people remember what theyre buying for their perfumes. Want something to wear for dating? XXYY. Want something to wear for formal events? AABB. Instead of having to memorize whats essentially a grocery shopping list for either of those when you need a refill. 15% citrus grapefruit. 12% sandalwood. 8% patchouli. 5% floral rose. 10% jasmine. So on so forth. Theres a whole lot of science around what scents mix well with what scents but you can absolutely go to a custom perfume shop to make your own scent if you want to reject the products that have been made as a result of research by experts and there you can with the advice and help of a professional make your own blend of perfumes and theyll give you a chit with the list of scents used to recreate the perfume at a later date should you need a refill. And mind you perfume is an industry that goes back thousands of years and many types of perfume scents have been developed to play a role in how humans interact with each other. From business interactions to courtship to a status symbol the range of applications is pretty wide. And while a lot of it does have to do with marketing I would say that a lot of it also appeals to cultural and genetic associations as well. So just to give an example the pheromones a woman would give off when shes fertile or aroused can change how she smells like to men and this can affect the way how shes treated by the men she interacts with. And it absolutely makes sense to wear a perfume that either complements this scent or mimics it while shes trying to attract a mans attention or otherwise try to elicit a favorable response out of him/them during the interaction. Does not necessarily have to be for sex you can do it for business dealings as well. This has absolutely nothing to do with gender roles but rather the biological aspect of human attraction and how we respond to scents which are a signal to one another on various topics whether it is mating suitability communal associations and cultural associations. Sees marketing. Notes This is just marketing!! Yeah anything you read about any product is marketing well done. Use whatever fragrance you want and go about your day? True for way too many things. Such a shame its come out this way. Le labo sells fragrances with no gender marketing Wanna save money just buy men products. well that kind of goes for almost everything. almost nothing has a gender and everyone can do wear use whatever. and I think if everything was unisex from the beginning the whole gender/sex thing that’s a thing right now.. would look very different. I guessed as much......just like theres no such thing as a MAN or WOMAN Post 6 The expectation for couples to live together is weird This may have been posted before and maybe isnt as unpopular as I think but a default milestone in romantic relationships is to move in together. Couples are expected to move in together and stay living together for the rest of their relationship/marriage/lives. And if living together negatively impacts their relationship then they are obviously incompatible and should end the relationship. Why? I love my best friend as though she were my flesh and blood. Weve had each others backs for 16 years no matter what life has thrown at us no matter how long weve gone without seeing each other. But could I live with her? Hell no! Does that mean we shouldnt be friends? I love my mum my sister my nan. Me and my mum had a *very* contentious relationship growing up now Im an adult I live under my own roof we are incredibly close. My sister and I are two peas we have so much fun together we support each other with the hard shit I love that girl. My nan is the sweetest little old lady in the world she bridged the hard years of my childhood and made life joyful when my mum couldnt. She is one of my favourite people on earth. Could I live with any of them? No. Absolutely not. My mum and I have polar opposite ideas of what clean is she cant finish painting a room to save her life. My sister has awful mood swings and health anxiety when shes in a bad mood the whole house is under a dark cloud she tries to contain herself to her room until she feels better but being in close quarters your moods are going to be felt by everyone else. I could go on but the point is everyone has little things about the way they live that are unique to them and that would be hard to live with. This is accepted a lot people can relate to their familial relationships improving once they moved out. Noone would side eye best friends of 20 years not living together. But we should force ourselves to live in a house with a romantic partner compromise on things we shouldnt necessarily have to compromise on try and force people to be someone theyre not and chip away at what once was a loving happy relationship all in the name of sharing a mortgage? Waking up in the same bed every day? I love my partner for who he is not his ability to put his socks in the hamper or take the bin out quicker than I would. He loves me for who I am not whether I wash his undies for him or book his doctor appointments for him. I hate the phrase but... lets normalise couples having their own space. Please remember what subreddit you are in this is unpopular opinion. We want civil and unpopular takes and discussion. Any uncivil and ToS violating comments will be removed and subject to a ban. Have a nice day! *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* To each their own I guess. But I really enjoy being around my wife and so does she. We’ve been together 15 years and still can’t stand being apart any more than necessary. It’s comforting and exciting to come home to her every day. my rent is three thousand dollars and the chance i ever save up enough money for a down payment is non existent why the FUCK would i send my partner to pay another 3000 dollars instead of splitting the burden between us AND getting to hang out with my favourite person every day? i do like having the apartment to myself some days but its just so wildly unrealistic Mostly because its to ensure kids have a secure home. Even without kids in the picture in the case of childfree couples for most people it makes sense from a financial perspective. Obviously this will not be the case for every single couple out there and that is okay too. Can we possibly get past the normalize” portion of our timeline? Live how you wish. Allow others to do as they wish. I can assure you OP over eight billion people have no interest or opinion on your living arrangements. Most couples in my experience want to. It isn’t an expectation”. I think the compromise here is having your own space within the house instead of sharing a bedroom. Personally I don’t see myself ever having kids or getting married but if I were to find a partner that changed my mind on those things I know for a fact I would be insisting on us having separate rooms. I’m not a people person social interaction is mentally draining even if I’m enjoying the interaction. Sometimes I just need to hide away in my room and recharge my social batteries. I couldnt have it any other way. My primary love languages are physical touch and quality time and living together make these readily available for me for the most time.The key for me is to have a big house where we can give each other space when its needed to maintain balance. I honestly love seeing touching and hanging out with my S/O on a very regular basis. Your whole justification was about your parents and your mom when the post was about couples. I would never in a million years want to live with my mom or siblings. I would live with someone because I loved them and wanted to spend time with them. I didnt move in with my partner because thats what is expected but because I love spending time with them. They may do things that annoy me like not putting away dirty clothes but the positives of living with them far outweigh the negatives. If you live with your partner but always feel like youd rather live seperate I struggle to believe you truly love them If you don’t have kids and have different lifestyles at home I agree this can work just fine. My bff and her bf have been a couple for over 15 years and they live apart. Works for them. They’ve occasionally considered moving in together but the bf can never make a decision about where he wants to move to so they just haven’t done it. Most people dont move in together because its expected of them. They move in together because they *want* to be around each other a lot more. Can that period be an adjustment yes especially if they didnt know how the other one lived and one is really clean and the other is not or one has regular habits in their home that are kind of annoying that thee other didnt know about. For the relationships that result in kids though are said kids only going to live with one of them or do they move in together then? That might put additional strain on the relationship at a time when strain can already be common. You compared it to other relationships where people dont live together and thats true my brothers and I got along much better once we didnt live in the same house. But romantic relationships are ideally more significant than those relationships despite the blood connection and part of being an adult is supposed to include learning healthy conflict resolution which in theory people may be more inclined to do with the person they love most. Bottom line though you dont have to if you dont want to. Maybe a duplex or neighboring apartments would be good enough. To each their own! Im not opposed to separate bedrooms so everybody has their own private space but I think Id miss my partner way too much if they were in a whole other house. The kids. Force ourselves to live in a house with a romantic partner…” If it feels like being forced then maybe it’s not the right relationship? My dream romantic partner would live next door and I wouldn’t see him until well after my morning coffee hits. 😂 Ive lived with my wife since we graduated highschool weve been together since we were 16 and are now 34. I have never once wanted to be apart from her We game she draws while I paint minis. Occasionally shell be in the bedroom watching something while Im at my desk. We can have space in the house not that Ive ever not wanted to be with her. Honestly the whole needing space thing has always been weird to me. I agree that couples do better when both people have their own space but the point of being together is to be together. Living together is how you actually build a life together which is what marriage actually is a wedding is just a party and the license is just a piece of paper. So who gets to bear the day to day burden of caring for the kids mom like normal? Or are you gonna pull them back and forth like a divorced couple? Cuz we all know that isn’t in the best interest of the child. This has always been my stance but now that mortgages and rent are insanely expensive not only would I split those potential costs with a partner we’d probably have to have roommates as well. If not separate dwellings in this day and age at least separate bedrooms. And before anyone calls it out you can still share a bed for the night if you want to it’s just nice to have the option of your own separate spaces. The fun thing about life is that if the status quo doesnt work for you you can ignore it. If you have a spine. I do acknowledge youre talking about the generalized expectation and you know blah blah tradition. Blah blah patriarchy. The more we go against the norm the more norm the non norm is I get a rebate every time I type norm. I F54 have been with my partner M65 for a decade. We live in our own houses. He recently retired so he moved closer from a 20 minute drive to a 5 minute drive. I know we are blessed to be able to do this but honestly we could not live together. It’s been the best relationship of my life. And yes our families are intertwined. For me the ironing out of the differences you highlight is part and parcel of a long lasting committed relationship. Frankly there are probably millions of people I could date from afar. Thats easy. Building a life together with a shared space finances and goals together is the hard rewarding part. My Husband and I have separate bedrooms. They are our personal spaces. We have different mattresses different furniture everything. We do not sleep together at night. Our relationship has never been closer. Its absolutely amazing. You understand that a best friend or family member is an extremely different relationship to a long term commited romantic partner. The whole point is to find someone to share your ENTIRE life with. Friends are just friends for a reason... Family shouldnt even be a talking point in this discussion. Your partner is supposed to be the one that you do EVERYTHING with. How do you expect to keep a marriage going while living separately? And look... Theres no reason you need to follow the normal way of doing things... But you will not achieve the same level of monogamous intimacy living separately. If the relationship only works when you dont live together then you wont last or youll lack the intimacy that most people crave Why would I want to be in a romantic relationship with someone I cant live with? I am good. If I cant live with the person I cant be in a romantic relationship with them Humans tend to partner for child rearing. Dating is really an extension of this reproductive process. We want partners to live with because we want to share resources and responsibilities. You look for common values when you start a relationship. Especially values that hold utmost importance in your lives. I guess if sharing physical space with your partner is not important to either of you then feel free to not live together. But its not practical or suited to everyone. If you look at a lot of relationship problems on reddit they live together and cant afford to leave. A lot of people get into relationships to have a roof over their head and cant leave because they dont have the financials to do so. whoa boy... the idea of two partners having separate BEDROOMS is contentious on the internet let alone never living together. I agree with you though I personally couldnt do it I LOVE my physical contact and would not sleep without a partner if I didnt have too. But my parents have separate bedrooms because of their two very different sleep patterns so its easier for both of them to have their own bedrooms. I think the main reason is that when people are in long term serious relationships it is common for them to move in together and get married and when people get married kids come along and its easier to parent kids if both parents are in the same house. By my sister and her boyfriend have been together for nearly 7 years at this point theyre both \~26/27 and they dont live together. They have a healthy happy relationship. I dont HAVE to live with my wife I WANT to live with her. Everyday I get to wake up next to my best friend and kiss her goodnight. I always have someone to go to dinner with and I have someone to vent with and be excited with. There is not a day that goes by that I dont think how lucky I am to spend every day with her. Do I have to clean more than I would normally? Yes. Do I have to watch silly TV shows with her rather than play my playstation sometimes? Yes. Do I need to cook more rather than ordering greasy food? Yes. But none of that is even close to the joy I get from living with her. I cant imagine being in a relationship that seems to be lasting forever WITHOUT the desire to live together. If one doesnt want to live with their partner personally I would think they arent marriage material I love my best friend as though she were my flesh and blood. Weve had each others backs for 16 years no matter what life has thrown at us no matter how long weve gone without seeing each other. But could I live with her? Hell no! Does that mean we shouldnt be friends? The relationship with best friends is nothing at all like a romantic relationship. Couples who fall in love are infatuated with each other and during that stretch of time dont want to be apart even to go to the bathroom. I think genetically its to make sure no one else threatens to take away the protector or impregnates the woman. Listing all the people you love who arent your partner to prove a point about living with a partner makes no sense. Honestly I read the title and was ready to come argue with you about it but…I am pretty much in favor of society generally dropping expectations for how relationships are supposed” to look or proceed. I feel like I see tons of people who would be much much happier if they stopped trying to force themselves to fit in a particular expected box of a how society says relationship should go. So yeah! People should do what works for them even if it means they don’t live together. I love living with my best friend so im marrying him too Living apart together is a thing that exists. It depends on what you want out of the relationship if you want to live together then yep not being able to share a house is an incompatibility there are plenty of people in the world who share your definition of clean. No one is forcing you to take that path though and I know people who are together but dont cohabitate. But we are social creatures our natural tendency is to group together to live and form families and care for each other. From living costs to parenting duties cooking for our partner when theyre tired nursing them to health if theyre sick being there to share moments etc... In fact Id argue its rather unhealthy that when your sister gets dark moods for instance she should be contained to her room or worse alone in a house with no one to relieve her pain. We are not meant to be alone. Thats why society tends to move in that direction its our instinct. In fact families used to be larger and more generations lived under the same roof marriage now is not an obligation to spend alone time together kids are not an obligation either and coparenting in different houses is happening more and more. If anything society is now pushing *less* than ever for cohabitation. So I will say I know a long term couple who don’t live together. My best friend’s mother. Her husband died when my friend was one years old. She was in her early 40s—they hadn’t been together that long maybe dated 23 years married a 23 yearso and then he was gone. About ten years later she started dating James and has dated him probably close to 20 years. My friend considers their unit his parents”. She lives in Wisconsin he lives in Connecticut. I think because they started dating later in their lives both having had past marriages and kids the impulse to live together and uproot their various lives wasn’t terribly strong. I respect their relationship a lot for that. However I think it’s a little different. Younger people or people prior to the settling down” part of their lives tend to see the partner as part of creating that settled down” life. I don’t think it’s necessary but I think you have to be very secure and comfortable and stable to do it. Im not much into romantic partner but I am looking into a life partner. I would love to have someone I trust and rely on living in the same house for me. Why? Because shit will be so much cheaper. Even the increase in utility bills will still have things be cheaper. And then Ill only be paying half of rent/mortgage. But therell also be a balance as to the household chores. Therell be some compromising but hell I dont mind going grocery shopping or doing laundry. My partner can make all of the phone calls and appointments and paperwork that I hate doing. And then Ill also have support right there instead of hundreds of miles away. Im sick awesome my partner can make sure that things are still running rather than me needing to walk a mile to the grocery store in 20F weather to buy some food for me to eat. My partner is sick awesome I can make sure theyre taken care of and do the things they need to do. Do I want to share a room? Not particularly. But sharing a house would be hella nice. Its not expected or needed to function like a partnership and a unit with your mom sister or a friend. But if youre in a serious relationship it makes most sense if you want to build a life with someone. How can you build a life with someone if you dont share an address? I’m having trouble understanding what the end game of a relationship is for you. Surely it isn’t to start a family or do you propose joint custody while living separately? For most people relationships are a trial run for creating a family unit. Because living together is one of if not the purpose of having such a relationship. Youre selecting someone to be in partnership with you for all of the life stuff. Dealing with finances and bills. Hosting friends and family. Raising children. Managing household tasks. A partner isnt just a friend that you have sex with. I agree with this wholeheartedly. I love the idea of having someone to have a relationship with but I hate the idea of someone being in my space. I live alone with my dog and I love it. I adore my house love my car and am learning to love my life. Why would I want someone to take up space? Wouldnt best friends/ your mom or someone you love be something different than a girlfriend/ husband or someone youre in love with? Maybe for some that accounts for the difference in their *choice* to live together. A lot of people are going to do that though because of cost saving. Living with people allows you to scale saving very well It just allows you to have more resources a lot of the time Because theres so many things you only have to buy one of or so many costs you only have to pay one time per household. In fact this savings in our society is one of the main benefits of relationships combined with the combined income factor if you all are seriously living together Though I do agree with your main point though I think people should be more willing to live apart and stuff and people should be more willing to respect that boundary there are definitely a lot of people that want a connection but dont want to live with another person Most people do want to live with their spouse. If you don’t that fine. Booking doctors appointments for another adult is crazy tho I agree but I wish it were this simple. Most of my fights with my wife are about the fact we live together. But if we didnt I would miss the jokes that come when we are just hanging out while someone makes dinner or does something else mundane. We have a child and the dynamic of the 3 of us together can be magical. The fact I can talk tk her whenever and that we can discuss parenting issues. That said it often feels like we would not fight anymore if we lived separately. On the other hand I feel much less close to my mum since I moved out. She gets on my nerves much more easily and I do think thats because we dont see each other enough to build up the positives. Personally my wife is my best friend we’re basically twins at this point the amount of time we spend together personally I love spending every day with her and living with her. I guess it depends on how much time youre comfortable spending together or apart. Living separately can put limitations on how you can organize your lives and managing two households while having to constantly bounce between your places can be a big hassle. Sure it can work if you only meet for a few days a week but in a longterm committed relationship people tend to spend the majority of their lives together in some shape or form and that means youd have to both make accomodations for each other in your own homes anyway. Living together is just logical and convenient. All in all I feel like this mindset makes the relationship stuck in a dating stage without shared responsibilites and compromise. I dont want to be a guest in my SOs home forever nor do I want them to be a guest in mine. lets normalise couples having their own space. Now that is an entirely different convo. You can and should have your own space while living together. Whos expecting you to do so? Live your life how you want to live it. If you dont want to share the same home with your partner and you have the money to do so do it. 🤷‍♀️ My cousin and her boyfriend are celebrating 25 years dating in September. They live 45 minutes away from each other. I agree! I’m also poly so there’s that mandatory relationship escalators toward cohabitation just don’t work as well in that context for a whole host of reasons. I currently have just one very permanent partner and we do live together we’re very compatible but we have separate rooms makes us more compatible than we would be if we had to share a room though we’ve done that too. If things changed and it no longer made sense to live together we would not end the relationship. I get it. Living in separate houses seems a bit overkill and impractical but to each their own. I would much prefer separate bedrooms. Seeing how the comments paint living together as a natural *want* in a relationship is interesting. I could personally never feel that way about anyone. That’s just me though. Buddy of mine had a long seemingly quite happy marriage. He lived in Vegas while she lived in California. Weird af if you don’t want to spend as much time with your partner. I look forward to the time we have together. Do I want alone time? Sure. I let her know hey I’m gonna play games for 2 hours and she knows to leave me alone while gaming. Most of the time I love being with her. Even if she’s just there reading while I’m doing something it’s nice. If you don’t feel that then maybe not the right person for you. Also it’s dumb af having 2 mortgages rent etc lol. Also easier to split chores. And we get on each other sure if house is dirty but it’s part of a relationship. I think Im a similar type of person to you. My preference is to live alone and I feel I get along much better with people when Im not around them all the time including romantic partners. If I could choose to have my own place forever I would. Unfortunately in this economy Im barely making enough to get by living on my own anymore. I have my own place currently but Im in a relationship and things are progressing towards living together. As much as this scares me and Ill miss living on my own my expenses are going to be reduced greatly by moving in with someone else. So I think these days its more out of financial necessity that moving in together is expected. But if you are wealthy enough to continue living on your own all the more power to you! This is definitely unpopular. But you also described the difference between romantic love and platonic love. Most people feel differently about someone they romantically want to be with. The key difference is I want to live with my partner. I want to share that space with them. I do not want to share my space with someone Im not romantically involved with even if I love them. I think moving in together solidifies moving from a dating phase to a more serious phase. If I found a partner and we never moved on together how serious are we really? Just feels like perpetual dating if you ask me. Even if we dont get engaged or anything it still feels more serious because weve committed to each other by living together. I love my best friend Youre probably not going to have sex with her. I love my mum my sister my nan I really hope youre not going to have sex with them either. Relationships are different. They are significantly more intimate than friendships and familial relationships. They often involve sex and children and living together goes well with this. You do you. But splitting expenses with another person youre compatible with is fucking incredible. Also relationships are typically a lead up to children and having split households is a bad way to raise kids. I think you’re missing a big point here. The expectation” of couples living together is not just a societal norm it’s a biological one. Humans who are romantically involved and fully compatible want to share space as much as possible. This is how it has always been and is not a societal construct. There are examples of this in many other animal species as well. Honestly some might even say we biologically should be living with our parents our best friends our grandparents. It means they arent compatible because it isnt practical to live apart forever unless theyre both well off and dont intend to have children. So yes that is an important piece of a longterm emotional relationship for most. Also part of true love is the ability to work through differences together. You dont have to live the same way but a good couple should be capable of working through those differences. If you want that it’s fine. But its still *weird* you don’t want to live with your partner and still want to be with them because they should make your life easier and more enjoyable when they’re around not more difficult. Cost aside a well adjusted adult doesn’t add a lot of mess but can clean just as much. It’s not a problem to cook a full cup of rice instead of half a cup or wash two plates instead of one. It’s a great trade off if youre cooking but dont have to wash the dishes or they’re cooking the day after. It’s great that someone made your bed when you had a long day at work and forgot. It’s great to have someone who takes care of you. It’s also nice to do your thing and have your loved one do their thing nearby showing each other what youre doing chatting etc. I think its nice to have a smaller separate space like a home office hobby room man cave even bedroom whatever so you can have a bit more privacy and alone time. So you can fully decorate them in your style And thats easier to have with two incomes. But if living with your partner isnt something that would reduce your cost of living and your domestic workload that would make illness and stressful bussy periods easier rather just adding clothes on the floor and ugly interior design... You have a shitty partner and should find a new one. God this would be awful. Ive been with my husband for 8 years and I get so excited when he comes home from work I WFH. You do you boo but as for me? I will continue loving the shit out of our lives that we are building together and compromising where I need to because I cant sleep without the sound of his snores next to me. together apes strong. This post was made by BIG REALTOR I think its right there in the name partner. To me the difference between a boyfriend/girlfriend and a partner is that with a partner you have decided to team up in life. Youre no longer working in parallel you become one line. How can you do that if youre spending large chunks of time apart and have massively separate financial lives? How do you maintain that level of emotional intimacy and define common goals? If its just were dating we live separately we like it thats fine and great! Thats a wonderful life. But to me thats not the same thing as a romantic partnership. Sheryl Lee Ralph famous actress original Dream Girl on Broadway currently in Abbott Elementary talked about this not that long ago. She and her husband dont live together havent for years and shes expressed that shes very content in their relationship and so is her husband. People immediately were up in arms about how she doesnt love her husband how theyre clearly cheating on each other or in an open relationship and that it doesnt make sense that she wouldnt want to live with her husband. My fiance and I dont live together. We got jobs at the same time that we loved and we dont/wont have kids so it made sense. Do we plan to live together again? Sure because we want to. But people genuinely cant comprehend that we currently dont live together and that one of us mainly me wouldnt give up a career opportunity to move with the other. I think we get really defensive and judgmental when people live lives that go against the status quo. If you and your partner can afford not to live together and you can create a stable environment for your children all power to you if that works for your relationship. I am polyamorous and never learned how to live independently until I opened up to polyamory. That said I highly recommend serious levels of individual autonomy even for monogamous people Separate Bedrooms Even if you want to live in the same house I recommend separate bedrooms. Each person has a room to decorate and retreat to as their personal space. You can choose to sleep over or be alone any time you want. If you are nonmonogamous this also makes it much easier to have other partners over. Separate Finances Decide how to split mutual expenses and finance large purchases. Aside from that let each person have money that they alone get to decide how to spend. The freedom to be able to buy a thing without having to check with someone else first is underrated. Separate Time and Together Time This one is most important and hardest to convey. Many monogamous couples default to spending time together making the occasional exception maybe for a hobby or other time alone. Then they wonder where all the passion has gone a few years later. Instead make the default that each person can come and go as they please. Schedule certain things together maybe dinner is by default a shared activity so you can plan meals for example. Schedule date time together this is time for the two of you to focus on each other and put away other distractions. Aside from that let each person manage their own time and feel free to do what they like without having to check in with the other person. In my experience the freedom to be apart makes the decision to be together all the more special. People make the old ball and chain” jokes a little too often to not have some amount of real resentment behind it. Im going to go out on a limb and say this opinion is more popular now only because we live in the age of the Internet and your level of safety is extremely high. You have a near infinite number of ways to distract yourself and kill time in your day without others. And the people you DO want in your life are 1 button away from giving you attention. Functionally were at a point where if youre satisfied with your living arrangement you have no real motive to change it for someone you might enjoy some time and intimacy with. Sure there are definitely SOME couples out there that can have strong healthy relationships while living in separate homes **alone**. I doubt its a large percentage at all. And living with your own family or friends while building a relationship isnt the same as purposely living alone and refusing to live with the person youre in a relationship with. But what about during emergencies or times of insecurity? Would you really want to be living by yourself during a superstorm? During a tornado tsunami earthquake etc? Would you really want your loved one to be living alone some distance away from you during those times? If they fall on hard economic times are you going to tell them to live on the streets or move back in with family? What about if you get badly injured? Do you think its fair to expect them to come over and take care of you daily when youre out of the way? Its why the trope and joke of women slowly moving into their mans home existed. Absolutely unpopular but I agree it shouldnt be looked down on. When couples who can afford to do this talk about it the comments are always that they are hiding something one of them is gay etc. Instead of just accepting that different accommodations work for different couples. This is funny because the only reason why I stopped living with my family was when I went to college and became roommates with my best friend. My best friend and I became roommates for so long after that the only reason we stopped living together was because we got married within 5 months of each other and wanted to live with our husbands who were also best friends. So I very much cannot relate to this whatsoever I mean this is definitely the most appropriate sub for such a weird take 😂 I don’t think I’d want to live in a separate house from my husband. I like talking to him and seeing him regularly throughout the day. We both WFH but his office is in the basement and mine is in the sunroom area which sounds unfair but it gets extremely cold in there in the winter so we both make our sacrifices lol so we do spend hours and hours apart pretty much every day. But I love him so much that I want to see him when I wake up and have dinner with him every night and have sex with him randomly 34 times a week at least and that wouldn’t really be possible if we didn’t live together. If I have a difficult client and I’m really stressed out I can go visit him in the garden or in the basement or wherever he’s at and get a hug and feel a little better. If he’s got a stomach bug or something I can throw together a quick chicken soup to bring up to him for lunch and I don’t even need to leave the house so I can do it on my lunch break. It just wouldn’t make sense to not live together. We made a promise that we’ll be there for each other no matter what and that really wouldn’t be possible if we lived in separate homes. Plus you’d have double the expenses double the chores half the free time. It just makes sense for most couples to live together. This just sounds to me like youre simply unable to share a living space with anyone because youre a my way or the highway type of person and youre trying to justify it by saying living with ones partner is a weird expectation. Having your own space is healthy. Having it be two entirely separate buildings is often times not practical. I think every couple should try and figure out what works for them. This is fine if you both have plenty of money to support the idea most people cant afford it then again plenty on benefits do it to get more money where I am and this is the goal not space as theyre always at each others place unofficially We only live together because we can’t afford adjoining country estates with corresponding city penthouse apartments. Currently just I’m grateful I don’t live with a bunch of strangers anymore. Hahahahaha this made me remember a time where after 2 relationships I said I would never want to share a room with a partner or wife and my mom said to me so what would be the purpose of marrying if you are going to have your own room 🤣🤣🤣. I want to have it as neat as I would want and not get pissed at someone because they have a mess. I want to wake up or go to sleep without disturbance get whatever mattress I want etc Id love to just live my best Frida Kahlo life with my future partner. My dream is to own a duplex with my husband thats connected by an inside door. That way wed still see each other as often as we want but would also have our own mini apartments. My partner and I have separate bedrooms. Thats the best compromise imo. We both love our space and alone time r/livingaparttogether is a thing You do know that you can do whatever you want with your relationship right? As long as you find someone that shares the same views as you. I think its mainly based on the expectation to raise kids with your partner I would be a lot more interested in dating if I wasnt expected to eventually move in with them Bub what? People need to live together in order to financially survive in this economy. How can you not see that? Why would you and your partner both pay $2500$4000 a month for a living space when you can split it. Also finally a true unpopular opinion congrats bub I think what bothers me is the expectation of how soon youre meant to live together with their partner. Whenever I was with my partner for maybe 3 months I was going to be moving to a new place and a couple friends asking if were moving in together. Unless my financial situation had gotten to a point where Id need a roommate to survive I would not feel comfortable moving in with someone Ive only known for 3 months regardless if they are my partner or not we are now \~1.5 years in and we both feel that we are not ready to live together yet. So where are the children living? I would never move in with a romantic partner unless youre actively getting married or otherwise agreed on a lifelong commitment. Either actually build a life together or keep your safe space safe. My boyfriend and I have been together over 5 years and are just moving in together. We’ve had our own nice places and he works away so it just works for us but people seemed surprised and question why we don’t live together and it feels weird to have to justify it to someone else! You should find a partner you like lmao You might enjoy the book stepping off tbe relationship escalator by Amy Gahran. Unpacks many assumed relationship norms like how youre describing it seems like its a failure or not meant to be if you dont live together etc. Many ways to do relationships that work for you that are still meaningful! I once read that if you need to test drive your relationship by living together then you aren’t actually committed anyway. You marry someone in your heart and mind first. If you can’t see it there you’re not going to suddenly see it when you live together. So I agree. Keep some things sacred. Its 2025 and the CoL is high most everywhere. Dual income living situations put you very much ahead in terms of buying power. That ALONE makes everyone having their own space an even more deleterious option for society at large. Not to mention sharing chores utilities and companionship makes it more attractive than living alone if you have a good relationship. Nah fuck what youre saying....we need more connection in this world right now not less. i felt like this until i moved in with my partner. nothing makes me happier than knowing i get to see my person everyday. i think this is just the opinion of someone who hasn’t lived with anyone but family/maybe strangers in college. You dont have to be latched onto each other 24/7. Your place should have more than one room. If you cant live with someone then the two of you shouldnt be in a romantic relationship. This just comes off as coping that you hate your family We shouldnt live with our partners because you cant live with your family you cant live with your best friend neither of which are your partner. The relationship is fundimentallp different How are you going to raise kids if you dont live together? Purposefully introduce them to an unstable environment? 1 rent is cheaper than 2. Car insurance is cheaper for 2 cars than a single car. Cooking and shopping for 2 is easier than for 1. My partner and I have separate bedrooms but I would hate to live in separate households! We love to spend as much time together though we also value quality sleep. You bring up some valid points about not living with family but your partner is someone you CHOOSE. If you don’t like living with them are you really a match?? The trick is to marry someone you like to be around. Many couples ignore this very important first step. We already dont have enough housing for everyone it takes up space to the detriment of animals and arable land and we should each have our own home when we can live as a couple in a large space? You can take my upvote lol. I have loved living with my husband since the day we moved in together. Waking up together and hanging out every day is awesome. It’s not like we are in the same room 24/7 spending every minute together. Creating our own home makes us happy. Also paying double rent/mortgage? No thanks Because Im part of a partnership. This is a very sad view you have on how much you should be able to rely on your partner No i dont want to be away from my Partner. I missed hin so much during our longdistance relationship. Now that hes gone i crave hin everyday!! Thats the difference between a Partner and all the other people. I can be around him 24/7. With bathroom breaks. But I am so much happier with him than alone. I love them but I couldn’t live with them This idea is completely incompatible with my worldview. *If* you love someone and don’t want to live with them then I kinda don’t think you love them enough 🤷🏻‍♀️ If you cant live with your partner without it chipping away at your relationship the relationship is far too fragile and wont last anyway. You don’t have to do anything. Just as long as you and partner are on same page. Do as you please. The thing that makes your partner different from any other friend or family member is that youre specifically choosing someone with whom to share your life. Why would you date someone you dont want to spend your life with? Just have casual relationships at that point. If I didnt live with my wife Id never see her during the week. Unacceptable. Let’s not normalize it. It’s been this way for like a thousand years and probably for good reasons that a lot of people before us toughed out. That is a horrible idea. If you can’t live with your lifelong partner then it probably shouldn’t be. This is such a weird take. I dont know anyone that was forced to move in together. We do it because we want to be closer to our romantic partner and have regular sexy time. You do you OP and I doubt many people will care. 🤷 Thats awesome! I hope you find what youre looking for and have the happiest relationship in the world! your mom or best friend are not your life partner. if you dont want a life partner thats ok. but many people do want that partner to share and grow with. Im not going to buy a house with my mom or build a retirement with my best friend. couples having their own space is one thing and important. i have my space for my crafts and he has his for his fish tanks and other hobbies. but you seem to be missing key understandings on romantic relationships. they are not just a friend you have sex with. your partner should never be on the same level as you mom or friend. id dare say you just dont want a life partner and want casual dating. thats fine. but articulate that. i dont think this is an unpopular opinion i think this is a fundamental misunderstanding of what a romantic partner is in the first place. I think what’s even weirder is when people act like it’s a red flag when couples have separate bedrooms. As if sharing a bed is the only way to have a healthy relationship 🙄 what if we have different work/sleep schedules? What if my partner snores? Do we really have to sleep inches apart every single night? This opinion isn’t even just unpopular it’s really bad lol. Well done. How old are you and have you even been in a really serious relationship? Not being rude just want to know what your context on the relationship side of this post is because you only gave family examples.. most people choose to and want to live with their significant other because they love their SO and want to spend time with them. Not because it’s expected of them. ok mr.money bags You love your friends but you’re not IN love with them which is why you don’t want to live with them. A romantic partner is different you want to be around them more. Most couples get to a point when their they say why are paying for two places to live when we spend almost every night together anyway”. It’s not something most couple do begrudgingly. Moving in together before marriage has become normalized” because it’s what people want. It wasn’t always a socially acceptable practice. Most adults have limited free time when you live together you have to opportunity to steal a few minutes of affection and companionship that you wouldn’t otherwise be able to. Give your life a few more moments of joy. You can set up your home so that you each your own personal space. You don’t have to spend all your time together but you have the opportunity to maximize the amount time you have to spend together. Do you really want to spend the rest of your life *arranging* time to spend with your partner. Do you really want to have to schedule every time you have sex forever. That’s actually crazy. It can get so hard to make time to see people so it’s very nice when all you have to do to see the one you love most is go home. You don’t suddenly become someone’s mom when you move in together. My husband still makes his own doctor’s appointments. But together we can share burdens and make life easier for each other. Instead of us both doing our own shopping and preparing our own meals and doing our own laundry. Now I can prepare our meals and he does our laundry. He takes some of the load off of me and I take some of some of the load off of him. Giving us both more free time. Having said that if you don’t want to you don’t have to. You’re under no obligation to do what is normal”. It’s much easier to just live your life the way you want and ignore the judgement of others than to try to get people not to judge you. I hate the phrase but... lets normalise couples having their own space. Believe it or not you can live with someone and not be attached to them every second youre both home. My wife and I each have our own space in the house...I have my office in the basement and she has the bedroom...and we can and do choose to spend time away from each other occasionally. This scenario only works with being in a relationship with someone who has the same avoidant attachment style. Otherwise it’s a recipe for disaster and drifting apart It’s a more efficient use of resources. This is such a dumb take. Maybe you’ve never been in love but I love living with my husband. It makes sense logistically money wise for cooking taking care of kids. lol are you in high school? Same house? I wanna be in the same shirt as my partner but sadly i we don’t both fit. OP needs therapy some sort of underlying trauma going on there. Destructive behavior hurts everyone involved not just you please seek professional help. Side piece of 16 years got it. I like being around my wife all the time. Also it is wildly unrealistic to furnish two homes for the kids. I think having your own space is fine I have an office/computer room and my wife has a sewing room. Post 7 Coldplay is just corporate Radiohead Goddamn alegria art of music. So advertiser friendly. Don’t believe me? Go to a big box store guess which one will be playing on the speakers? We don’t talk about how Twilight got into 15 Step and sullied it like vermin Please remember what subreddit you are in this is unpopular opinion. We want civil and unpopular takes and discussion. Any uncivil and ToS violating comments will be removed and subject to a ban. Have a nice day! *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Not sure this is unpopular think a lot of people think this they’re a very divisive band. Some of their earlier stuff was good this para para para nonsense drives me nuts. Never considered them in the same category as Radiohead at all hmm Ill have to think on this. All my favorite bands are relegated to restaurants and malls now. Yeah Ive heard Coldplay = watered down Radiohead before. Agree. Haha corporate Radiohead thats a good one Ive always called them the poormans U2 but yours is clearly a superior insult🫡 Where is the connection to Radiohead again...? Can people stop complaining about Coldplay? Seriously thats so 2010s. Theyre both good bands in very different ways. Coldplay makes some great pop hits catchy and well performed by their lead man. Radiohead is more creative and artistic but that doesnt devalue Coldplay. Your complaint on Radiohead being in Twilight reminds me of my teenage self lol. This is something I verbatim said a lot when the movie came out. Coldplay is much more uplifting than Radiohead. yep. theyre Radiohead + lateera U2. Coldplay is Radiohead for people who have had sex before. I really feel bad for Coldplay. They get criticised for sounding like every other band despite the fact they were the ones who popularised the sound in the first place. Radiohead is just corporate music for people who think they don’t like corporate music. And I say that as somebody with dreadful knowledge of and taste in music They both suck reminds me of the game emily is away tbh. coldplay is not THAT good 😭 Lmao I remember an interview with Death Cabs Nick Harmer an avid reader saying something like the books are *akshualy* good speaking of their song Ghosts Of Beverly Drive being featured on Twilight New Moon. Back in 09 Id say that matched up about the same time I fell off the wagon and was no longer a fan. Saw them twice in a row as they were touring Narrow Stairs. If only I was cooler in the early 2000s I could have seen prime time DCFC. You can observe what I mean in their doc Drive Well Sleep Carefully. Anyway Im way too stoned for this comment. Coldplay sucks ! As a Coldplay fan I 100% agree with you on this I don’t mind Coldplay’s music. They seem to get a lot of hate and ate joked about. I do get what the OP is saying. They are kind of a shallow version of Radiohead. But they’re not that bad. I went to their concert recently and it was probably the most packed I have ever seen an arena. You wouldn’t know it by how much the internet hates them though. You cant have a hot take on Coldplay in 2025. They are now an oldies band with enough nostalgic hits for the radio not an actual pop band. Their music is now mum and dad music that gets played in shopping centers. Radiohead is better but Coldplay is better looking.” — Chris Martin on The Colbert Show. Pretty much sums it up. Truke. I remember thinking this when Yellow was playing every ten minutes on MTV Parachutes was a legit album. Chris Coldplayman got too deep into pop for his own good though. Coldplay is a more polished Travis. I agree that Coldplay is corporate and terrible but its a bit insulting to Radiohead to even compare the two. If youre a fan of Radiohead you know... Radiohead is the corporate Radiohead Radiohead is corporate Radiohead Coldplay is a cheap knock off of that Coldplaydiohead Nah theyre the London version of U2. Both bands were super successful early on but after selling out ironically they became less relevant. They have a few really good songs where Radiohead is lacking in that department but hey at least Radiohead isn’t corporate” Sounds about right. Downvote I guess? Radiohead never used a team of songwriters like Coldplay do now. If anything post 2013ish Coldplay are just a more popular Imagine Dragons. Basically one Coldplay album Parachutes sounds a little like one Radiohead song that they dont play anymore Fake Plastic Trees...not really sure why people latched on to this comparison. You could definitely say that about some of Radioheads discography In Rainbows Pablo Honey The Bends. But for their more interesting work the difference is substantial. First Coldplay is soft rock. Radiohead is progrock. Theyre two completely different styles of music. Second Coldplay has never produced anything even remotely as conceptually impressive as Paranoid Android or OK Computer for that matter. Nor have they ever had the balls to step outside their comfort zone to produce something as obscure and meandering as Amnesiac was. To put them in the same category just because their both british is just wrong. I’ve always liked Radiohead more than Coldplay. I had a suicidal roommate in college who loved all that mopey stuff that Coldplay had on their Yellow album or whatever. / Unfortunately Radiohead have disappointed where Coldplay have impressed with their recent takes on Gaza. Coldplay aside Radiohead has been regurgitating the same hums and beeps since Hail to the Thief. From Pablo Honey to Amnesiac Radiohead pushed creative boundaries and built an impeccable catalog. Each album different from the previous. They had something to say and delivered. Everything from Hail to the Thief onward is a lesser version of Kid A/Amnesiac. Instead of progression theyve peddled stagnation. A quartercentury rut. A well run dry. Plus theyre terrible. And by terrible I mean that you have utter shit for taste if you enjoy listening to their music. [deleted] Boomer rock Post 8 We should stop modernizing our personal technology phones computers other conveniences and instead go back to the analogue age. Here’s why First off if you think that I must be some 90 something year old bag of bones who just wants everything his way…well…I promise your wrong I’m actually 20 years old. Just wishing I was alive before the digital era came along ruined life. Now While I might sound VERY opinionated saying that I do wholeheartedly believe there are a few actually good reasons for us to stop using digitalthis and Automaticthat. For instance when people say they just don’t make ‘em like they used to” they are usually referring to reliability of said thing or durability etc. implying that older things if maintained well are often MORE reliable and durable then modern stuff. Of course you might argue that most modern stuff is made overseas in china &amp elsewhere hence the reason for the drop in reliability quality among other issues. But I personally have owned many modern products made in the USA and I still legitimately gravitate toward the older equivalent counterparts. Here are my reasons for this 1. Cost is generally lower with vintage/antiques. I don’t have a ton of cash on me and what I do have is going to a car. I literally can’t afford to keep replacing modern garbage that already costs a fortune to buy in the first place. 2. Hassle free is just a sales pitch…and a lie. A mechanical clock may be more of a hassle to maintain due to needs for oiling cleaning &amp winding. But aside from winding it which is easy the oiling is usually much less frequent than some may think AND! maintenance like repairs or a full cleaning are often many YEARS apart. I don’t know of any batteryclocks that are this bullet proof let alone truly hassle free.” Their batteries will almost certainly die WAY before my mechanical chiming clock ever will. 3. Modern tech only leads to dependence &amp addiction. I don’t always want to be glued to my phone. But modern technology in the workplace has made it seem almost impossible to detach from the screens especially for work itself. I wish I could just throw my phone in the trash but then how will I text friends? Or answer job calls? It is a horrible way to live. I still suffer from this. I can’t stop looking at my phone. Even for simple stuff like checking the time I still tend to use it. I don’t want to be enslaved to inanimate objects it’s silly but true😩. 4. If it ain’t broke don’t fix it! As screenaddicted as I am I don’t need a screen to be happy. I would much rather hang out facetoface or call my boss rather then text them. I am even trying to restore a large tube radio so I can hopefully ditch TV and still listen to the news. Yes. I’m really that desperate to escape the digital age. I don’t go by the name irrationaly obsolete” for nothing!😎. Lol. In all I personally think modernization is a scam a lie a serious problem and a bunch of overrated baloney. But it doesn’t matter what I think what do you all think? Does anybody agree with me?😅🙏🏻 I don’t want to start a fight I just want to see if I’m at least resonating with some folks here. God bless👋🏻😎. Please remember what subreddit you are in this is unpopular opinion. We want civil and unpopular takes and discussion. Any uncivil and ToS violating comments will be removed and subject to a ban. Have a nice day! *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Nothing is stopping you from getting rid of screens and new tech. You can still get tube radios electromechanical appliances mech/auto watches etc and use them. the issue is you and anyone else can absolutely do this to a degree. so if it’s so great whats stopping you from doing each of these things? these types of opinions always come from the privilege of having all the advanced technology at your fingertips to have the time to daydream about what ifs..... in the first place. I promise you nobody who has wound a cassette tape with a pencil cleaned carbs on an engine got sucked in to working a weekend because they had a face to face with their boss or has spent 7 hours in a file room looking for a misplaced report because Lisa used the incorrect filing structure actually fantasizes about how the old days were better. The leap in technology across so many areas since the new millennium has been a miracle. I think the real travesty is that technology has progressed so quickly past parenting research and third space modernization that it is now harming childrens social development instead of aiding it. Which leads to kids having stunted development and blaming the technology instead of the adults in the room who introduced the technology into our lives. Dont get it twisted the only reason you have time to fiddle with a rotary phone is because the incredible advancements in technology aiding you every day whether intentionally or in the background of your life. It’s sounds like your screen addiction is the issue not the technology itself. You even mentioned using your phone to check the time? Get a watch. You’re the only person that’s making you dependent on screens. My husband has no social media and the only apps on his phone are the apps that came installed. He genuinely only uses it for calls and texts. i love my record player and vinyls. still use spotify cuz i lost my mp3 but it is what it is I think your numbered points are flawed.. 1. Modern technology is generally cheaper to manufacture than analog tech. This is why so many cars are becoming smart it costs less and they can change more 2. Digital equipment is typically more hasslefree than analog but this comes with its own flaws. Rather than being able to maintain or fix it yourself you may have to send a product to a licensed repair tech who generates more money for the manufacturer. 3. Modern tech doesn’t inherently lead to dependence… nothing stopping you from putting your phone down. If you want to call people you can do this with a phone without a screen. Apps like Instagram YouTube and TikTok are made addictive by design but you can simply choose not to engage. 4. kind of irrelevant and subjective. I know this is r/unpopularopinion but nothing is stopping you from going off the grid my boy It is true that some older things were more reliable because they were simpler tech. Some of that stuff is still possible to find though. But some of it went away for various reasons. Lack of appealing features planned obselencence etc Or for example environmental regulation made a lot of the older home appliances go away. Your washer dishwasher etc. are very different than the past. They have a lot of digital control systems to let them run with less water and still clean your clothes. Whereas older analog stuff would just use more water and often wash faster. Interesting some commercial grade appliances are still like that. Okay join the Amish and see how long you last I guess. How are you gonna call someone from a wireless device if you don’t want to go digital? Modern technology advances the field of medicine so far that I think half of the people with chronic conditions today wouldn’t be alive without it. Cute Part of what you’re describing is survivorship bias. Plenty of stuff that was made in the past broke got destroyed or otherwise made unusable. Much of the stuff that has survived has been of the exceptional build quality already. They made cheap stuff in the past it just didn’t last till now. Yeah let me just spend my day winding the clocks in my house and washing my clothes in the nearest river. Thats better than screen addiction for sure Literally the only reason you feel this way is because you didnt have to live with that old shit. To you its a novelty. The rest of us who lived with all of the stuff that you consider vintage or antique day in and day out collectively created all of those conveniences youre complaining about over the years because we liked them more than the stuff we were using before. You want to go back to using rotary phones having to either memorize phone numbers or keeping a physical phone book going to your library to look up shit in an outdated encyclopedia printed years ago to find out stuff waiting for a printed paper to read news written the night before etc. then go do it. Nothing is stopping you and all of that crap still exists along with the analog clocks and whatever else. If you dont want to be glued to your phone and a slave to inanimate objects then stop being glued to your phone and being a slave to inanimate objects. All of society doesnt need to change for the worse just because you lack any semblance of self control or personal responsibility. Theres definitely shit to be said about certain old things when it comes to reliability and repairability because less complex things are easier to repair but the general trend toward modernization has been better for humanity as a whole even despite those relatively minor downsides. The idea that older stuff was made better comes from a survivorship bias. There are old things that have lasted but 99% of the things manufactured in the same era have broken down and been thrown away so you dont see those things. You dont see the sheer volume of waste we have amassed. All you see is that 1950s camera that still shoots and your great grandfathers swissmade pocketwatch that still runs. Mechanical watches will never been as accurate as a $5 Casio digital. Quarts movements measure time in the thousands of seconds. A perfectly tuned fine automatic watch will lose about 12 seconds per week. The cheapest digital wat h will lose 12 seconds per decade. I love my Seiko. I built it myself and selected every part. They were all manufactured within the last few years. And the mechanical movements that you can get for $30 now outpace the antiques that you pay thousands for. Theres a lot of examples of this. FLAC files will always beat a record player in terms of quality longevity and especially convenience. But I love the ritual of using my record player. Digital cameras have gotten INSANE and your cellphone has a camera included in it that will outperform most retro digital cams. But I still shoot on film. Its fine to like these things but its all about preferences. Lets not kid ourselves and insist that our vintage machines and hobbies are better than their modern counterparts. They may FEEL better to you and I but hand your average Instagram photographer a film camera and they would probably want nothing to do with it. The main deciding factor for me buying something is how much of it do I actually own? Im not going to buy a music streaming addition to my hifi setup. Im not buying switch 2 until I can verify that we can download and play games on it without Nintendos input. My switch 1 is hard modded and loaded up with 2 TB of games and emulators Im fine for quite a while. Ive got hard drives full of movies and music that I own and no streaming service is going to match that. I dont care how cheap your monthly subscription is. If I dont own it Im not buying it. I have a constant internal struggle with technological advances. On one hand it is very nice to have so many things be easier like directions finding out of something is open quickly etc etc. It is nice being able to use the internet. Modern medicine advancements are also obviously amazing. On the other hand a lot of that convenience results in a level of mass surveillance that I hate. Social media is cool but the way misinformation and propaganda is intentionally spread makes me want to rip my hair out. Most social media has also reduced to almost non stop ads whether they are disclosed properly or not. A lot of our modern conveniences are only possible due to exploitation of other countries resources. And the advancements are detrimental to the environment and various community’s water supplies. Even just having the knowledge of what my local river was like before installing a dam for hydroelectric power makes my heart ache. Then there is the fact that a lot of these advancements are purely to make more profit and not to make things more pleasant for the consumer. I don’t use smart tvs because of their own level of surveillance and the fact that they are getting to the point of running ads on the damn things. Even video game consoles are starting to transition to *digital only* games which means you do not actually own them. It is nice having so many movies and songs at my fingertips but they aren’t actually mine. Whatever service you buy them from can just take them away from you whenever they want. Or you pay $100s of dollars a year to watch/listen to things. This model has also resulted in media being much more low quality 8 episode seasons with little genuine character development that will get canceled immediately if it didn’t blow up on social media. It also results in the artists making music to make very little money and for actors to make very little residuals. Older media is becoming censored/altered on a lot of these streaming sites with no way to access what it was meant to be. Unless you manage to have a physical copy or someone happened to upload the uncensored original to social media/youtube. Every device is meant to break and become obsolete as fast as possible that way you will be a new device. Everything *has* to be online and you are always expected to have a smartphone. Whether it be a clock in app for work a chat app for work a way to get tickets to events etc. I am so over it. I recognize that I’m very privileged to have access to a lot of these advancements it just often feels like the current and longterm consequences for those advancements aren’t worth it. It is an unpopular opinion you have I hope one day it is more popular. ’/ Modernization is a scam” this statement doesn’t even make sense because the things you appreciate were at one time a result of modernization. You’re just saying things I don’t like = serious problem.” This seems more like a form of escapism because if we want to talk about ethics you would help starving people and not repair a tube radio. Yea Big big I was born in the wrong generation energy coming from this post. I mean you have pretty much only lived with Modern tech. You go right ahead Id rather not go back to hauling a DVD player books magazines comics map print outs etc. in my backpack when all of that currently fits in one pocket. Using tech is a choice. Leave the phone at home if you dont want it on you at all times. Plenty of people do just that if they find they are having difficulty leaving it in their pocket. When Im out and about my phone stays in my pocket unless Im using it with a purpose. I prefer to be open and to engage with the people around me. The only step back I would recommend is newspapers. I think theyre great. Less screen time quality articles and up to date information. I found myself every night spending 30 mins or so on news websites but wanted to reduce my screen time before bed. Best decision ever. I feel as good reading the paper as when Im reading a book. Except the paper is suitable for my attention span. Pay for good journalism. Its worth it. Go ahead and do it no one is stopping you As someone who used to be 20 I know you think you’re being original. But Luddism has been around forever. I like the way you think I LOVE the idea and ive been doing it for abt 2 yrs it is so much fun and feels more human Id be surprised if a 90 year old used Reddit There is a paradox in all this that if we truly slowed down with the innovation either everyone would go out of business or things would become insanely expensive. And people dont like to go out of business. Its like ordering a salad in a burger restaurant. It costs as a burger but ingredients are way cheaper. But it cannot be sold cheaper. You need eveyone buying dumb gizmos so your old time stuff is actually cheap and you also need it not to become niche. But the good news is that you can carve your own lane and not follow every new digital trend. Although I disagree in terms of what is easier as I should given the sub I think you did a nice job laying out your opinion. Take my upvote! Technology has definitely become ingrained in our society. Im pretty nostalgic of the 90s where we had all the conveniences you really needed without feeling constantly forced to engage/stay connected. I was a be home when the street lights come on kind of kid and it was incredible. Sometimes I wish we could go back to that era. That said back to analog like you are talking is too far imo. Some automation has made our lives tremendously better and although phones can get annoying just having the ability to make a real phone call in emergencies is huge. All things we had in the 90s....Just saying lol! I work in IT and *generally* speaking I disagree. As a whole the world is most definitely too reliant on modern tech but a LOT of good has come from it as well as the bad. There are areas of my own life I prefer to keep on the lowtech side. Im not a fan of the way a lot of new cars seem more like an iPhone on wheels for example. Theyre safer in a crash than older cars but a lot of that safety and tech have come with downsides like limiting visibility which makes a crash more likely and then requires MORE tech to overcome which only compounds the issue. Theres also the part where Im a car guy and love driving and newer cars generally speaking just arent as good to drive. I wouldnt go back to an old school cell phone because of the convenience a smart phone provides but I dont care for buying the latest and greatest every time a new one comes out. As long as it does what I need and doesnt run like total crap then Im happy with it. Does tech come with its own issues like addiction? Yeah absolutely though a lot of that sort of thing isnt the fault of the tech its the fault of companies and people abusing the capabilities of said tech to get people addicted so they can make more money or otherwise benefit. Its not like addiction wasnt an issue before digital stuff was more common its just moved to being more subtle and more mentally inclined issues than beforehand. Its a huge and VERY complicated topic. Hubby and I are in IT and we wont use any Smart appliance or have an Alexa or whatever in the house. We have a house network and we game. I enjoy certain conveniences of accessing things on my phone and my work PC and the synchronization that goes with it. Zoom has been handy when some of my clients dont live in town. We play VR with various cousins all over the province and country and its a blast. But all that Smart stuff... no. I agree to a certain extent. I am not fond of modern tech which is why when I bought appliances I got ones that were basic and had no digital displays and wifi enabled features. My current phone works just fine so I havent upgraded to a new one. My 2005 car still drives so I havent bought a new one. When I bought a new bed I didnt bother with the digital adjustable base. I dont like AI so I am not upgrading to a phone with that technology built in. Things arent built like they used to be so I buy vintage/antique. I am not fond of living in the techfocused age but I know nobody is forcing me to embrace every aspect of it. I also know that just because I dislike it that doesnt mean everyone else should too. I agree with you and I agree its extremely unpopular. People who are saying using tech is a choice must be some kind of heir with no need to work. Also Im 42 and I remember many difficulties of the past. Maybe I was just younger and had more vitality but it feels like today every little thing is exhausting. I cant do anythin without creating an account going through twofactor authentication captchas integrating the new app with the old one cancelling free trials before they charge deleting apps that went rogue on me. Music and movies are among the few exceptions. I have to admit its much easier to consume them now. But even that is about to go down the toilet very soon with all the AI stuff flooding everything. I wanna know why kitchen appliances need to be able to connect to my phone via bluetooth. So unnecessary and ups the cost so much. And not everything needs a touch screen either including in cars. Everything worked fine before The quality argument doesnt really make sense because we have the capacity to make higher quality products. The only reason were not doing it is because of the profit motive. For example light bulb manufacturers in 1924 came to an agreement to make bulbs that last less so that people would have to replace them more often. The only reason you feel that way is because of capitalism. If we organised production around human need you wouldnt have apps that are psychologically engineered to make you addicted or ads every 5 minutes asking you to buy stuff you dont need. I have a smart phone but I turned off Wifi and mobile data on it and only turn it on if needed. I use a kindle fire to get online and even then I dont use the social media apps just the browser. Infact the phone is in the bedroom on my dresser as we speak. I figured that I am hardly using the phone might as well as make it as close to analog that I can get. Older tech is better for me as I can hopefully repair it. I don’t work at the moment and I got a refund on my recently purchased Samsung s20 ultra bought a $100 Motorola E14 and leave it in my bedroom most of the day. I simply don’t need it unless I’m leaving the house. I just don’t need it it’s others who ‘need’ me to have it which is only on occasion. idk I think the best time was just before smartphones. Youd have to be sitting down at your computer so it wouldnt interrupt your life but youll still get internet Naw. I love my technology. If you think the cost will be lower you’re dreaming. Companies will find a way for them to be as expensive as current ones I dont think you can escape this completely but I know they make motorola TCL flip phones for old people. You could probably get one of those and at least limit your screen time when youre not at home and still be able to participate in modern society for the most part. But even then some restraunts have menus on QR codes and a lot of events have digital tickets. But its not really impossible. So all that old technology is generally more fragile and less reliable than modern tech. With regards to appliances it’s not the circuit boards that cause the failures but the overuse of plastic components instead of more durable materials used in the past. … said the guy on Reddit on his phone with spellcheck on his shitter with indoor plumbing. Why don’t you horse &amp buggy it down to the store and get stuff to make me some biscuits. This is actually a very popular opinion over on r/Amish. re the quality thing its not that its made in China or Vietnam or whatever that makes it lower quality stuff. Its that it makes more money to sell you something multiple times than to sell it to you once and capitalism places profit maximization at the highest priority not improving your or anyones really even billionaires quality of life or being sustainable or anything else. Just more profits. So they cut corners in product manufacture and to prevent you from complaining insist its because of a totally unnecessary design decision that they frame as a more modern sleek trendy design. For instance my tablet has glass that goes all the way to the edge with only about half a mm of frame around it. This is despite having about 9mm of unusable glass between the edge and the actual screen. If that unusable glass was instead plastic and extended 1mm above the glass and had a screen protector built into it made out of plastic not glass then I could drop it on stone tiles and itd be unharmed. Id have to TRY to damage it to break it no accidents could do it in. They dont though because theyve convinced people that sleeker is better and the fact that an unarmored tablet has a roughly 50% chance of being unsalvageable if dropped on tile just means youll be buying the same product more often. The inability to modify or repair it is also an intentional design strategy and not required by the technology itself. The spyware is included to commodify you not because it needs it to function only the marketing department is actually incapable of doing its job without the spyware. Everything else that supposedly needs it is just lying to you and is designed to sabotage itself when you block the spyware. Etc etc etc. To fix the unreliability issue you have to get rid of the system that rewards unreliable product design capitalism. Now I do also think that analog tech is more in line with what humans evolved to function best with. The pace of life in the digital age is not what humans were designed for. This too though can be fixed by changing away from a system focused on profit maximization and instead one that focuses on quality of life maximization and your life isnt going to be high quality without a lot of leisure time to relax TRULY relax. With current tech we could cut the work week down to 20 hours and still have the same amount of stuff as middle class Americans in the 1990s if we flattened the distribution of wealth a bit no billionaires few millionaires zero impoverished zero involuntarily unemployed. This would also be a good change for the environment for sustainability and for literally all health/wellness/happiness metrics. Technically this can be done within capitalism. If you can convince the government to go against the billionaires. Good luck though if thats your preference rezone suburbia to be mixeduse and thus no longer push all suburban workers to commute an hour each way every day and you can further reduce wasted time. With half the work hours no extreme inequality a 5min walk to your workplace instead of a 60min drive in rush hour and devices designed to last decades rather than months you would see a much healthier happier world overall. wrong. adapt or be left behind. Its amazing how you managed to get almost every single point almost exactly wrong. Older technologies were way worse more expensive and less durable. Yeah my grandmothers microwave lasted for 20 years but it was enormous heated everything incredibly unevenly and cost the 1975 equivalent of $3000. And I a 48 year old man have never seen a single digital clock fail in my entire life unless it was literally physically destroyed. If you spend $9 on a digital watch at WalMart today it will run forever and be 1900 times as accurate as any mechanical clock you will ever be close to be able to afford. Has technology enabled and fostered some bad habits? Of course but on the whole everything is SO MUCH better and orders of magnitude cheaper than it used to be. 100% agree and relatively unpopular so 8/10. To everyone commenting that you can you can’t do jack shit without email. You can’t get a job or bank account without email. Without either of those you can’t get a place to live. Hospitals don’t take cash. Courts often compel actions that require interacting with technology. Tethering our basic existence to the digital realm isn’t just an inconvenience it will contribute to the downfall of humanity. Technology is always a double edged sword. This is only unpopular on reddit where everyone is polyanna about the modern world. I totally agree with OP. People have raised some pretty dumb points in response. Esp the people saying you can live that way if you want. Oh really? Tell me where I can buy a washing machine/microwave/TV/phone that lasts 20 years. Tell.me what channel I can watch that still has good shows they have all been bought by subscription services. OP is absolutely right that the hassle from having to constantly buy new appliances and research every few years which one is good now is a big time consumer. People are way more time poor now than we were in the past. A lot of people here have bought into individualistic neoLiberal garbage too. Addiction is the way brains work. You cant just switch it off. And appliances that are designed to addict are exploitative. OP is absolutely right that they have taken away personal contact. I used to end up in conversations with random strangers all the time because you had time to kill. Now everyone whips out their phone and ignores people nearby them. My phone is an accessibility solution that fits in my pocket from reading shorts texts like menus identifying colours magnification turn by turn directions and points of interest summoning an Uber to my exact location if I am lost… My world is far more accessible and I am more independent as a result of my smartphone and you will have to pry it from my cold dead hands. That said I love sewing on my antique treadle sewing machine and writing with fountain pens. We have a modern record player and I wore an analog watch until I gave up wearing a watch all together. There’s a place for all kinds of technology and you can curate your life to limit digital tech if you want. But for me while I love some of that old tech forcing me back to a predigital age would absolutely make my life worse. I don’t think this view is that unpopular. A lot of people have dreamed of going back to simpler times. But here’s why I think you’re wrong. **Cost** My dad spent a fortune on his first computer. In today’s money it was probably around $6000. Same with his first mobile phone one of those big clunky ones you needed a backpack to carry. **Convenience** I’m not so sure things were easier back then. Digital stuff today is way more reliable. When I was a kid our analog TV broke all the time. The internet has issues sure but so did landlines. They were unreliable and super expensive like 10 cents a minute or more. **Dependence and Addiction** Addiction is a personal issue. Dependence is just part of choosing a more comfortable life. If someone wants a harder life with less tech they can always opt out. **Modernization** If stepping away from modern tech works for you cool. But let’s not pretend modernization is a scam. Science and tech have brought huge benefits and we’re all better off because of it. I mean... its like saying oh it used to be better when we lived in small tightknit communities where neighbors felt like family yes. Yes it probably was better. But what is stopping you from doing that? Because I dont see a world where you convince everyone to forego technology you just kinda listed the upsides of getting rid of technology completely ignoring the downsides. This isnt even an opinion this is just generally an objective fact Agree and disagree. Technology is great its the tracking and selling of user data thats killing things. In the 90s and early/mid 00s that was prime Internet in my opinion. Basic HTML sites maybe some CSS and it was fun. Sites loaded quickly because they werent full of trackers and ads. When things like the sidekick and BlackBerry were around made it super convenient to communicate with others while on the go. So in regards to going back to analog days nah thats too far. I enjoy being able to find a science experiment for my kid on a website than having to go to the library and pull out a massive book based on the grade like I used to do. Id rather go back to the early days of home Internet. I have. I myself am very antitech. In fact the only tech I own is an iPhone a TV blue ray player and a Bluetooth speaker. And I don’t even use my TV. I didn’t even buy it it came with the house when I moved in. So it’s just mostly decorative. I don’t have cable or subscribe to streaming services bc I don’t watch TV shows or movies. I don’t even have WiFi bc I don’t really need it for anything. When I have free time I’m usually reading woodworking crafting listening to music. I try to minimize my phone use as much as possible but that’s proving to be difficult so I’m looking into possibly getting rid of my phone and just getting a flip phone but paying bills online and online banking is just too convenient. Agree 100% The kid doesnt understand that he can just put his phone down and start sending letters to his pals. Youve never lived outside the digital era and youre romanticizing the past. Ye Ive been saying that since about 2010 when I was 20 that we need an amish society but stuck in 1999. Phone is my only tech. Everything else is nonexistent or analog. No TV. Old stereo. Wood burning cook stove. Old cars. I do fine. Life isnt a hassle Youre just experiencing premature enlightenment. Thats all. Youre waking up to the massive psyop for the masses from all forms of media that have been trying to enslave us since weve been in the womb to buy shit we do not need with money we have not yet earned to impress people we dont even know. As far as reliability is concerned its deliberate. If your old phone works just fine you will be less inclined to buy a new one this year. So theyre designed for an 18month service life with the last six months all glitchy. My phones are from Walmart straight talk and theyre whatever is on sale on account of this AND because Im blue collar and Im hard on all of my equipment. Id like to make a suggestion regarding your future vehicle. Please avoid making car payments if you can. I ALWAYS bought everything in cash even my house until I got married and my wife convinced me to finance a vehicle for her to build my credit. Well? She totaled it the insurance company screwed me and Im still making payments on a car we no longer own that was a total POS from the minute she drove it off the lot. So I went to see my buddy who owns a junk yard found and did a cheap restomod on a 97 Mercedes Benz for her she owns it insurance is dirt cheap and its a HELL of a lot nicer than that 2017 Chevy Trax shed had from the dealership. But Im already established and dont need credit. Your situation may be quite another story. Best wishes. I expected you to be in your teens or 20s. Not that your opinions are wrong but those of us who grew up before the digital era know what is was really like. Picture this Sicily 1983... Okay imagine this You just ran out of gas and coasted into a gas station. Sorry its after 9pm so its closed. You pull out your notebook of phone numbers and see that your cars ashtray has some dimes and quarters. Awesome! You find the pay phone to call friends and family but the phone is broken. Guess the only option you have is to sleep in your car until the gas station opens up the next morning. Then again your friends or family might be so worried about where you are that theyve called the cops to go look for you. Your favorite TV show comes on Thursday nights but you got home late and missed it. Unfortunately you know that you wont see it again until they start playing reruns which will probably be years from now. Instead you go to work next day and ask everyone to tell you what happened You just got off your shift at the restaurant and have a couple hundred bucks to your name. Your car rent and utilities are coming due and you need to get the checks in the mail before Thursday or youll get late fees from each. Unfortunately your bank doesnt have a branch in the town you moved to so you have a few options drive to a town that has your branch pay a fee to have one bank wire it to another or pay a fee to have cashiers checks made up. Whichever way you go you know that the check has to reach the places before theyre due you will get fees if you dont Youre meeting friends somewhere but cant find each other. Youve called their houses but no one is picking up so you assume theyre on their way but you dont know if theyre wandering around looking for you Youre visiting a new city and dont have the atlas for that area. So you have to stop at every gas station and store you pass asking directions. If none are open you can always call a cab and pay them to let you follow them You want to go on vacation but dont have the money to hire a travel agent so you go to the airport a few weeks early and buy the tickets from the counter. You could do it on the day of but they might not have enough seats for everyone youre a woman trying to get any sort of reproductive health at all... I am even trying to restore a large tube radio so I can hopefully ditch TV and still listen to the news. Yes. I’m really that desperate to escape the digital age. Dude I lived through the tube era and it was no fun. Most tube radios had a hot chassis and if you dont know what youre doing you can easily electrocute yourself not to mention the huge amount of energy they waste and the chance of having a 50yearold capacitor explode. You can still get transistor analog radios that will receive TV and shortwave and regular AM/FM as well although its a lot easier to find digital ones but digital doesnt mean with a screen or connected to the Internet in this case. Anyway theyre a lot more reliable as well. I don’t think many people would be happy for a day including me. I lived those years and wouldn’t go back to a life that was so very inconvenient. Even though we were happy at the time it wouldn’t be the same. Stop buying products from apple and you suddenly wont have to spend as much money You cant put the toothpaste back in the tube. The only way we go backwards technologically is through a massive catastrophe. Asking every day citizens to simply go backwards with modern advancements is simply not going to work. I had a cell phone before you were born. Things are WAY better now than they were back then in 1000s of ways. If you dont like digital things fine go live like a Luddite and get off the internet my lawn. Is it an unpopular opinion if I agree myself? Post 9 Skypiea is a far better arc than alabasta and the hate is forced I just read the manga for the first time since watching the anime many years ago and its genuinely one of the best pieces of art Ive ever consumed but one thing I found interesting is my entire time since watching the anime and even before I heard about how terrible skypiea is and how people skip it. And yet I found that skypiea has been one of the most emotional arcs yet and about characters who dont even live in the modern day the lore implications of the arc are also amazing and to me the hate is just forced or the anime just does it really bad or something?. Please remember what subreddit you are in this is unpopular opinion. We want civil and unpopular takes and discussion. Any uncivil and ToS violating comments will be removed and subject to a ban. Have a nice day! *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Im getting old... If i remember correctly there was a brief moment where Oda was gonna end things around the alabasta arc but due to the success of the series was given a go ahead to extend it. This lead to a lot of things in skypea being scrapped and retconned out only to be later introduced in altered forms. They very obviously were using haki. Either way my wife watched the entire anime and we were kind of lack luster about watching it up until they said good bye to vivi funny enough we got to that point on the plane ride home from japan from that point on we watched it with an accelerated pace finishing the whole thing in what felt like a month or two later. Due to that I cant agree because alabasta is her favorite arc and im impartial. They are both good tho. ! Literally all whole arc of foreshadowing Skypiea manga is good because pacing wasnt the same as anime. Cause I love Dressrosa anime despite roughly same no. of episodes as Skypiea TMI idk longest arc in One Piece anime today They put my boy Eminem in there and gave him probably the most broken devil fruit in the series. Yea it’s my favorite arc also gave Usopp a massive power boot from the impact dials. Better Unpopular opinion One Piece is mid af and needs to stop being brought up in conversations about great anime. Something that still has shit...I mean unique...art decades later could have writing matching Shakespeare and itd still be a slog to get through...and One Piece aint Shakespeare. Post 10 FWB is emotionally unfair and honestly kind of cruel I want to preface this by saying I know some fwb situations work. I also find that a lot of friends with benefits is really just benefits with someone you kinda know” meaning the friendship part is really lacking and it’s mostly just casual sex/booty calls. I think it works better in this case. I’m mostly talking about the fwb that is based on real friendship. Whether you were friends before the benefits started or had a friendship evolve as a result of it… It’s basically a relationship without the label. You’re doing all the intimate stuff — spending time together without sex having sex cuddling confiding in each other talking often but then drawing a line where feelings are suddenly not allowed. You’re going on dates that can’t be considered dates having intimate sex and from the outside looking in it looks like a full blown relationship. Humans are wired for connection and you’re almost guaranteed that at least one person will end up catching feelings. I’d argue that the dynamic makes it pretty inevitable being that intimate and close with someone. What really bothers me is the message it sends You’re good enough to sleep with but not good enough to date.” How do people handle it? Especially with someone they deem a friend? It feels like you’re treating someone as an option and not a whole person with feelings. Quite dehumanizing I think. Casual sex with a stranger is one thing but I’m hard pressed to believe that casual sex with a close friend is anything but casual. I get that it works for some people but I find it to be way too high of an emotional risk. To me FWB is a setup where one person usually wins and the other gets hurt. Am I totally off base here? Have you had a FWB situations that ended well or do they all end poorly? Had a friend who would always make comments of how we should be together planned a whole life out and even had details on working with their family. She stood me up the first time things awkward she then made the same comments again said yes to date and then backed out again after I explained the first time really hurt me. A FWB with a lot of emotional connection? Its a thing. Its called boyfriend or girlfriend. Yes youre off base. You clearly got hurt by a situation. That doesnt mean the institution is fundamentally flawed. Marriage isnt flawed because some go badly. The place to see where your thinking is off is in the phrase real friendship. Its the No True Scotsman fallacy. It sounds like youd call the FWB who work out not a real friendship but the people actually in it would likely disagree. Its an arrangement between two consenting adults. Theres nothing inherently cruel about that. Hell there are people who enter relationships where one persons job is to literally berate and physically harm the other. Consensual relationships come in all shapes and sizes. Youre leaving out important bits that relationships insinuate. FWB allows for personal freedom to pursue other people career paths and living spaces. Not everyone wants a relationship because exclusivity and compromising doesnt work for them. I have an amazing friend and we have amazing sex but my future plans and hers dont align at all. We bond and vibe over us being proud of each other for pursuing our passions but if we were to cuff up wed both be sacrificing ourselves to maintain some stupid social status. If you have enough concreate to build a 4story complex but stretch it thin to make it 5 stories it wont be as strong as it shouldve been and will eventually crumble. Solid foundations are ALWAYS better than going higher. I think some of your generalizations are inaccurate and are actually mistakes I commonly see in failed FWB situations. #1 Avoid dates romantic gestures/intimacy No we do NOT look like a relationship from the outside in. We look like friends. MAYBE you can tell we hook up if were both drunk at the end of the night and flirting but normally speaking its just business as usual. 2 random friends in the friend group. Also you dont have to cuddle or whisper sweet nothings into each others ear either. Also dont hook up too often. Dont go on trips with just the two of you etc. My buddy does this and the same woman will sleep over 3x in a week and then he gets confused when she catches feelings. #2 Full transparency Be honest about your feelings or lack there of. If you start to develop feelings be honest as soon as possible with yourself and with your friend. Yall can cut things off at the moment either of you start to feel something if the other is determined to stay casual. #3 No expectations I think this is a big one some people go in with the wishful thinking that theyll change their partners mind. IMO thats similar to arguing in bad faith. Youre not being honest with your intentions here. Thats breaking rule #2. Also you dont have dibs. You arent the only person they are going to hook up with. You dont get priority if yall are at a party. Yall are just friends who may or may not occasionally booty call each other. Ive had many FWB over the years and most if not all of us are still friends or friendly. Just be honest and respectful. This is really about consent. If intentions are upfront you can choose not to engage. Its not cruel to agree to something and subsequently feel unexpected hurt thats just unintentional. If you feel you are inevitably hurt by the arrangement then it is not right for you and you shouldnt engage in it But calling it unfair and cruel when its intentional and transparent feels off base. If one person is withholding or lying about one or the other Id suggest its abusive just like any other relationship but I wouldnt use an abusive marriage to call marriage as a concept emotionally unfair and cruel FWB do work great if you are short sighted and care more about the short term rather than your mental health. No matter how you try to spin it now matter how your good moments or lust give you pleasure when you make that kind of connection with someone when you give that part of yourself you’re gonna get hurt if he doesn’t love you. [deleted] I had a swing which turned into something regular I liked her as a person so we hung out every now and again. I was however looking for a serious long term relation for a little under a year already at that point and I forsaw enough mismatches between us if we got more seriously involved thst I did not think that to be a good choise. we openly discussed it where clear in the expectations and clear in communication throughout and continued our dynamic. The sex was fun doing stuff every now and again was fun I texted with her somewhat but substantially less then with my best friend or my partners. It was a lovely situation a nice amount of cuddles and imtimicy while I was holding out waiting for a long term partner and she was aware of this and totally fine with it whats not to like Also on your second to last paragraph I had thought about a relationship with her but there where just a few mismatches which I did not want to commit to particularly the fact that she felt she was poly and also got into a poly relationship after a while and I am very much not poly love swinging when single but dont when I have a serious romantic partner. we communicate and both would like eachother as both friends and fuck buddies so fwb it was I fell for my fwb... Our story didnt have a happy ending like the movie lol This comes down to I personally would not do it. I don’t judge anyone who does. If they can make it work more power to them. Never done it but I can see it potentially working if you really do just have solid platonic relationship but you’re both horny. I can see it for the same reason as I gave when someone asked me if I was interested in dating one of my friends and when I said no they asked me why. I just asked them back Would you want to date all of your friends?” Some people you know well enough to know that you wouldn’t get along well romantically they’re not your type whether that’s because of looks personality style religious or political affiliation etc. But you are friends with them because of the parts you do like about them. So if people in that kind of relationship have an itch they would like to scratch why not? It’s the same lesson a lot of people have learned sex doesn’t mean love necessarily and if the people involved aren’t looking for that and everyone’s honest should be okay. You hear about some people catching feelings and always possible but again if everybody stays honest should be able to avoid the worst of it. You look at this from a ‘loose’ perspective. To be a friend and be a sexual partner is both a huge compliment. Also your perspective is of. Could I be friends with someone that voted for Trump? Yes. Could I have a relationship with somebody that voted for Trump? Probably not. It’s not always good or bad but also a matter of compatibility. You say it sends a message that you’re good enough to sleep with but not good enough to date that sounds crazy to me. Who is ‘sending’ this message in your example and who is ‘receiving’ it? A FWB situation implies that both people have the same goals from that relationship. You’re framing it as if one party is taking advantage of another. Why is that? You mention winning and losing in this scenario too why? Who is winning and who is losing? This is not an unpopular opinion It’s really dependent on the situation at hand I find situationships” that I’ve been in usually work if we don’t really text or talk we don’t go on dates we don’t stay the night with each other. Just simply wanna come over and sex is basically all there is to it it makes it a lot harder to open the door for emotions to really even be involved The few FWB situations Ive had have pretty much been booty calls. I feel its better that way. Its cool to get drinks or something but the whole doing relationship stuff while not being committed is recipe for a disaster. Basically being placeholders. Its always good to make your intentions known too. Also when you do get into a relationship its always good to break ties with the FWB. Staying friends is going to be a shit storm plus its a respect thing to the partners involved. There were only 2 FWB situations that I broke off without one of us getting into a relationship. 1. Even though I made it clear in the beginning that this is a casual thing she was clingy and Im pretty sure she was trying to convince me to ask her to be my girlfriend. Wanted to cuddle go on dates and even made a comment about me not kissing her the last time we met up when she left. 2. She was just flat out disrespectful. Shed blow off our plans made in advance without notifying me shed be late if I wanted to meet up and she didnt shed just leave my messages on open and shit like that. But.... If she messaged me to meet up and I didnt open the message because I was sleeping or something shed blow my phone up until Id answer and if I said no shed pester me. She also would do this sometimes after midnight while I was sleeping when I had to be up at 5 am. She did this a few times and Id tell her about it but shed do it again a few days later. Last time she did it I blocked her. Thats probably the closest thing Ive ever done to ghosting someone. Cruel and unfair to who? lmao. FWB should be and in my experience almost always is consensual on both ends in terms of what the relationship is and what you want from it. There are people that I can hang out with and be friends with but they would be horrible people to date. FWB is basically that nut with sex included. Taking away the sex part Im sure you have same sex or if youre gay opposite sex friends that you think of as great friends but would never want to live with? Its the exact same concept I handle it by not participating in it. I have feelings for all my friends. Those with benefits just have the plus of sex There a lot of people who dont want or need a full blown relationahip at all. I was just FWB with someone for 10 months before it progressed into a real relationship. The idea at the beginning was that neither of us was in the right place for a relationship and all of the extra stuff that comes with it but we both desired sexual release. We were definitely compatible and as the blockades in our lives went away so too did our aversion to relationships. Sometimes it just isnt the right time for commitment because you have too much selfwork to do. I disagree because I think its absolutely possible to have sexual and platonic feelings towards someone without wanting or developing romantic feelings. Romantic feelings dont develop automatically just because you sleep with someone you like as a friend. Those butterflies thinking about a future together etc. Your post sounds as if that is inevitable and thats simply not true. Ive had a friend whom I found hot as a sin and enjoyed his company as a friend. We had a ONS but it didnt develop into fwb. Even before we slept together I knew that I would never be interested in a relationship with him. Not only were we not compatible but I simply didnt have any romantic feelings towards him. And the sex was good but all the sex in the world wouldnt have changed the fact that I was simply not feeling it. If you cant recognize and separate lust platonic love and romantic love then dont get into a fwb arrangement. But plenty of people are capable of doing so. There’s so much nuance to the human condition and our emotions. Your fwb situation is not that at all. Friends don’t hurt each other. True friends honor and respect one another and communicate well. What you’re describing is a relationship where one side manipulates and takes advantage of the other. You have a problem with toxic people and rightly so. But this isn’t about fwb. For any fwb dynamic to work well there has to be very clear communication especially about boundaries. There has to be continual hard conversations and checkins. Typically converting a friend into a fwb is a recipe for disaster. There’s too much established history for those to work well usually. It’s easier to make a friend out of a fuck buddy than a fuck buddy from a friend. Source I am polyamorous and involved in swinging. I have a nesting partner I live and have a kid with. I also have a gf and a bf whom I see about twice a month separately. My partner and I also have several fwb we see about once to twice a year. Just because you got hurt doesn’t mean FWB situations don’t work. This isnt an opinion you’re just butthurt. Currently in a fwb situation while we’re both also in committed long term relationships. Perhaps a unique situation but so far our dynamic works great and my partner gets on super well with them I can’t fly a helicopter and don’t want to so we should just stop doing helicopters as a society” Not with consent. Your premise is too black and white. Yes some FWB situations turn into a crapshoot where one person catches feelings but others just run its course and life goes on. Ive had a few FWB connections in my life we didnt talk about it beforehand we didnt set boundaries we just kinda understood because we were friends first that randomly started hooking up that neither one of us wanted anything more that I know of wed see each other every few weeks talk occasionally bar hop by ourselves or with other friends if the vibe was right go back somewhere and have sex and then one day we just stopped and that was the end of it for various reasons. To every single comment saying it’s about 2 consenting adults!!” Should you be able to hire a hitman for yourself because you consented? At what point do we admit that consenting to degenerate things is still degeneracy it doesn’t magically become objectively good because you want it to happen to you. We live in a ✨society✨ and the decisions that you *think* only affect you don’t actually only affect you Yeah that’s why it’s awesome. Sounds like you caught the feels Post 11 Invitations should stop asking people to attend in black Tie Way too many invitations specify black tie when if were being generous they mean cocktail sunday best or at the very least the fanciest thing you have that still fits you. I see so many people stressing and asking internet strangers for their opinions only to be lambasted and insulted for not understanding the meaning of black tie. However by the time they get around to releasing short clips or pics from the event *no one* is wearing **black tie**.To top it all off the venues/settings normally dont even call for anything that fancy. I swear its as if people just heard the term black tie and thought it was synonymous with fancy and never really thought to look into it before requesting it of their loved ones. You cannot ask people to wear black tie attire to a barnyard wedding...at most youre getting someone wearing a particularly fancy sundress that goes past their knees with pastel/white block heels. Edit This is not about refusal to adhere to dresscode but people not understanding the dresscode they are asking for Please remember what subreddit you are in this is unpopular opinion. We want civil and unpopular takes and discussion. Any uncivil and ToS violating comments will be removed and subject to a ban. Have a nice day! *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* I have been to one black tie event in my life and everyone was in a tux. I dont think they would have let us in without one. It was a charity gala very fancy. Yes if an invite asks for black tie it should be **black tie** Almost everyone in this thread is apparently unable to read your post or its gone over their heads. Youre 100% right. Black tie explicitly means wear a tuxedo and nowadays a lot of people requesting it just mean dress nicely which leads the people who understood the invitation as it was written to overdress needlessly. Agreed. Black tie does not just mean fancy and you shouldnt be requesting black tie dress code when you know youre not inviting a black tie crowd or holding a black tie event. I think the core of this is that people aren’t respecting the instructions on the invitiation I love that the commenters are proving your point that people frequently misuse the term black tie” lmao. Black tie is evening and indoors. If it’s an afternoon garden wedding it is not by definition black tie. I recently went to a black tie” wedding where the bride changed into a short reception dress and sandals and the groom put on sneakers…… while the rest of us were in black tie for the rest of the night. I was annoyed As a former ta of a cotillion it irritates me that people dont know the difference between black and white tie from everything else. For me its the equivalent of pretending you have a doctorate when all you have done is watch Grays Anatomy. I spent countless hours learning these things that I will never get back and its really cringe to see the people that forced me to learn this stuff not learn it themselves. Some people in this thread have never eaten corn on the cob standing in grass at a black tie wedding and it shows. OP Im with you. If you have a bathroom trailer sliders for dinner and a warning on your invite that the entire wedding will be on grass... You dont have a black tie wedding. When it comes to weddings the trend for invitations has become to ask for guests to dress a step or two above what you actually want them wearing. Why? Because it keeps people from showing up in jeans and club wear and thats not just on the young people going. There are some people who if given the opportunity will wear their regular clothes to fancy events. Maybe they dont go to events often my husband. Maybe their idea of fancy is wearing their least worn tank top/tshirt and flip flops. Maybe they gave up entirely during 2020 and replaced their entire wardrobe with athleisure. Either way people in the US dress way more casually than they did 5 years ago. Brides have noticed this and to get around that they request black tie now. It gives an air of formality that actually gets people to put some effort into their appearance. I went to a wedding last year that specified cocktail attire and my own inlaws showed up looking like they were going to bottomless brunch at a resort. They were the most casually dressed there but they werent the only ones who just didnt stick to the dress code at all. No people know what black tie means. People also just decide they’re not doing it. My pet peeve is black tie optional. Like either it is or it isnt. Stop confusing people I got invited to a black tie only event once. Evidently I took that far too literally because everybody else was wearing shirts and pants too. I’m with you OP especially for weddings. I get it if it’s a fundraiser/gala and you need to put on an air of wealth and your attendees are all going to be wealthy with big closets and wardrobe budgets. But to celebrate a milestone with my friends/family? I’m a baker so I don’t have a ton of fancy clothes *or* extra income lol. The fact that I’m straight up not welcome at your wedding because my very best dress is maybe knee or shin length? It’s just wild to me. I was invited to a wedding that called for black tie” and then one sentence later on the wedding website stated that men can wear sport coats. So yeah… people have no clue what they’re talking about. I attended a black tie” wedding in my tuxedo only for no one else including the groomsmen to be in tuxedos. One guy came in jeans… I’m like… what the fuck is the point of a dress code?! Why should the invitations stop? Shouldnt the people start following the directions? If you are fancy enough to host a black tie dinner why shouldnt you? People can say no if they dont want to deal with all the BS black tie entails. Hey Im on your side! I just straight up assume that they mean fancy. None of my middle class friends have ever been to an actual black tie event lol. The only exception is military people theyre sticklers for dress codes and the only people I trust to know what black tie actually means. Totally agree. I’ve been to a couple black tie events where maybe 10% of people adhered to it. In general if they want an actual black tie I think they should just spell it out tuxedo/evening gown” rather than saying black tie” I feel like some people want it black tie but the guests done deliver It’s quite a commonly used term. If you don’t know what it means you have the whole internet to look it up and not just internet strangers. There’s really no excuse for not knowing. If the bride and groom want guests to be formally dressed at their barnyard wedding they have every right to. Reading threads like these make me feel grateful to live on the west coast. I dont think Ive ever received an invite for an event that was black tie. I think most weddings here are wear your best Patagonia kind of events. Yeah black tie is exclusively tuxedos and you should be properly dressed in that tuxedo. A black suit with a standard necktie does not adhere to black tie standards. Most people think their dad’s navy blazer with a red tie is fine for black tie but it’s not even close You cannot ask people to wear black tie attire to a barnyard wedding...at most youre getting someone wearing a particularly fancy sundress that goes past their knees with pastel/white block heels. I mean otherwise maybe the guests would have worn jeans then I just received an invitation to a fundraiser… formal attire black and white theme. I went to a fundraiser that said semiformal. I rented a gown. People were in JEANS. I felt so overdressed. Just wrong. Barely even saw people in suits. Now i am not believing any dress code. Agreed. I think it’s actually rude to dictate to guests what they can/should wear. The wedding party yes. They agree to that when they agree to be in a wedding party. I was invited to one wedding where it was black tie. I was in the wedding party so I had to rent a tux anyway. If I wasn’t in the wedding party there’s no way I would have rented a tux just to be a guest. I’d wear my nicest suit and dare you to tell me I wasn’t dressed well enough for your pretentious wedding. Some of these events people dress up like theyre attending Mormon church lol IDK where you are. But I see this as a shoot for the stars and youll land on the moon kinda thing in the US. I am not originally from the US and Im surprised at how badly people dress here some exceptions of course. Ive been to the opera and ballet on Saturday evening performances and seen men in khakis. Women in semiformal dress. I imagine people ask for black tie not because theyre expecting it but because they want to see people at least attempt to wear fancy attire or something nice. Im normally a live and let live person but I agree with Tim Gunns opinion on the schlumpification of America. If you don’t like the dress code don’t go. It’s not your event. It’s not about you. From an English perspective if you put black tie” on your wedding invitation you are obviously completely clueless about appropriate attire anyway. I saw someone the other day call out how often people do this without truly providing a black tie experience. I had never thought of it that way! A buffetstyle reception in a rustic venue should likely not be ‘black tie’ dress code. People just mean dress to impress” and want to avoid guests showing up dressed sloppily. I know what it means but I’m not doing it it’s somewhat of a personality flaw of mine probably but also of theirs for dictating that I need to go and buy special clothes to be worthy of attending their one event. Can we get rid of skinny pants for men first? Fr pull up in full latex Post 12 Artificial orange flavor tastes better than real orange flavor by a long shot. I think the artificial orange flavors like Fanta or Haribo Fruit Salad is better than natural orange flavors in drinks and other products. I would say artificial lemon flavor is king but the drinks dont match up well against orange. Artificial lemon fruit snacks are STier. Please remember what subreddit you are in this is unpopular opinion. We want civil and unpopular takes and discussion. Any uncivil and ToS violating comments will be removed and subject to a ban. Have a nice day! *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* That’s less unpopular opinion and more sugar addiction orange and lemon flavor candy are both the bane of my existence OP when have you eaten a fresh orange minutes after it was picked off the tree? If so which variety? I agree. I don’t like the taste of oranges but like most orange flavorings. Omg it looks like you have been living off ultraprocessed food your whole life. Get my upvote and go for real food. BMI check Idk...and natural orange thats ripe is up there. But orange Fanta is too. Wait till you hear about artificial strawberry flavour... Cosmically bad take upvoted You should try orange zest. Take a micro plane to an orange peel try to just get the orange skin and not the white pith. I add it to simple syrups and cocktails its much closer in flavor to orange candy flavor than orange juice. Same with lemon zest. I have respect for both a ripe orange and a Sunkist. Insane take upvoted Yo orange flavored tootsie pops are the best flavor of them all Ripe in season oranges are my favorite fruit. Crazy take Fanta orange soda is naturally flavored. I have orange trees at home so I know whats going on here. OP has never had homegrown oranges. I live in a climate perfect for oranges and even the locally grown oranges at the shops are shit. They need to look big and perfect. Pumped full of water that dilutes the taste comparing a fruit and a drink is like comparing apples to oranges 😼✌️ Post 13 If your doctor is always late thats a good thing Lets say your appointment time to see or speak to your family physician or specialist doctor is at a specific time but you often dont get to see him/her until much later than the scheduled time. Maybe upwards of an hour or two. This means this doctor actually listens and cares about their patients. They dont just rush them out the door once their 1015 minutes is up. They listen to all of their health issues and address them. If that takes more time then it takes more time. Have patience and they will also have patience with you. But if this particular doctor has a very rigid schedule and only sees people at very specific times then.. well yeah sure you wont have to *wait* to see them but youll probably just be rushed out of the door just like everyone else was. Please remember what subreddit you are in this is unpopular opinion. We want civil and unpopular takes and discussion. Any uncivil and ToS violating comments will be removed and subject to a ban. Have a nice day! *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* 10 15 minutes is fine. Waiting 2 hours is just taking the piss. This is a bit of an oversimplification I think. A doctor could just be overscheduled. If it happens once in a while I agree with you that it is probably a good sign that the doctor is listening. If it happens all the time I think thats more of a scheduling issue. Also since many people see their doctors on MF and work similar hours its more than just have patience. Its additional time off. If I knew my doctor would be 12 hours late Id leave my house later instead of just twiddling my thumbs in the waiting room. And of course these are generalizations. Some doctors can just be terrible at time management besides the overscheduling issue. My doctor was 4 hrs late when it was my time they said she wasn’t there and another doctor saw me. A two hour delay seems ridiculous. They have a schedule for a reason they need to account for extra time. Nah it means they overbook and most likely youll get a very rushed low quality visit Profesor why youre always late? Me I listen bruh...I listen to Reddit Every time I have been forced to wait for 2 hoirs my appointment was still 15 minutes. I think you under estimate how long doctors have to chart for. Them making you wait most of the time does not mean they are taking their time with each patient. It means they are over booked and are slow at charting lol If your doctor is always late their office is failing time management and it gives me concern about the rest of their organizational skills. My doctor had me wait just over 2 hours. And I had to wait because she’s a specialist. Otherwise the next appointment would have been weeks down the road. Previously it was 30 minutes maybe 45. After the 2 hour wait I would make my appointments so I was first to be seen.. 8am? Cool I’ll be here. No this means your doctor has poor time management. Correct me if I’m wrong but I’d think that I’d a doctor knows they spend an average of an hour seeing each patient they’d space their appointments out accordingly… I work as a forensic psychiatric case manager so I dont work with the average doctor but I would still like to share. The worst doctor I work with is the most consistently late. I have attended my clients appointments with him and he spends less than than 10 minutes with each rarely sufficient for a forensic client in my opinion. He almost exclusively asks the same few questions never diving deeper into any concerns the client has. He is also antagonist towards them and lacks any empathy. He does not take any other staffs thoughts into consideration. He can almost never be reached to discuss a case further or in more depth. The best doctor I work has only been late once over the course of several years. She has so much compassion patience and empty for all her clients. She purposely books more time between her clients so that if an appointment runs late she will have enough time before the next appointment. She is collaborative with the supporting staff client and any family members. I wish all of my clients could have a doctor like her. If they care that much they should schedule fewer appointments. I have a job and a child I dont have time to wait two hours. I will be fired or my kid will be left alone at kindergarten. If theyre running that late they need to let patients know so you can at least go away and come back. Youuuu clearly dont understand how medical clinics make money lol. Legit an unpopular opinion but because youre misinformed. Clinics make more money by OVERBOOKING the schedule. Youre waiting for hours because theyre booking double the amount of patients instead of in 1020 min time slots. Waiting up to half an hour ok thats fine. But more than that is just careless disregard for the time of patients and moneymaking on the part of the clinic. You can tell when its overbooking or not by the waiting room. I kind of agree with you. Everybody here commenting about scheduling and time management doesn’t understand that in the US of A big corporate daddy packs your schedule to the breaking point whether you fucking like it or not. Rarely is that a decision made by the doctor unless they own the practice. 2 hours is insane though It doesn’t it means they book way too many people in. If they’re ten minutes late a few times sure. But there is no excuse for being two hours late. That time I intentionally asked for the first appointment of the day because the wait was crazy and he was still a half hour late 😂 2 hours of waiting anywhere but the ER or Urgent Care is ridiculous. Oh please! If I had this poor level of time management in my job Id be fired on the spot. What a load of nonsense and malarkey you espouse. Screw that. I had an ENT doctor appointment waited 1 hour till saw him the 1st time. Had to go back a week later after 30 minutes past my appointment I went to the reception desk and told them Id send them my late fee and walked out. The hopsital called me a few days later apologizing saying that this doctor always ran late and they had lots of complaints. Why is my time not valuable? If i was running more than 10 minutes late they would cancel my appointment and send me a bill. My daughters peds doctor is amazing and always on time. I really respect her for it and she is such a goof doctor too. Yeah bullshit lmao. Everyone else is expected to show up on time for appointments doctors can do the same. This is an extremely L take. Ah....thats not always how that goes. There are a ton of reasons why a doctor has fallen behind a lot of which involves phone calls with non patients. I need a doctors take on this. What gets in the way most of the time guys? Short staffing? Over booking? Processing and paperwork? I know some of you are here my doctor spends 3045 minutes with a patient and i’ve never waited to see them. actually i’ve always been called back 1015 minutes early and they’ve been in 510 minutes later. 🤷🏻‍♀️ Mine is late when I am the first appointment of the day. I think he has serious organization issues wrong. it shows the doctors dont respect their patients. id rather they be stricter about it. it would force people to do better at communicating. People have commitments and can’t afford to wait an extra hour or two”. It’s the doctors job to be able to listen and evaluate their patients issues within the allotted time. That’s what makes a doctor good not them spending ridiculous amounts of time with each patient. What an asinine take. Upvoted I think the issue is patients being late it messes up the schedule for the whole day. That’s why I schedule 8am appointments lol. Um…. Had a chiro that was always 12 hours late switched offices lol Not true. Had a doctors office that would regularly make me wait 30min to an hour sometimes more. Then theyd ignore everything I said and treat me like a lab rat. If your doctor is late dont cut them slack. They made a commitment to be there at X time. Being a doctor is a job that can be done efficiently and well. Look up the ford of heart surgery. I used to have a very good doctor like this Doctor Daley now retired. I always booked first appointment of the day because by 10 am she’d be 30 min behind. We secretly called her Doctor Delay My doctor always is late and that is why. He spends a long time talking with me and others I have heard Lots of good explanations here of why doctors are actually latebut of course theres one more that I didnt see anyone mention...sometimes the golf game just runs long😀 Doctors are over scheduled and patients show up late. It delays the whole thing. PSA. Arrive early. This belongs on r/wrongopinion Doctors that rock up to work 1 hour late. I have never been seen by a doctor within an hour of my appointment time and I’ve gotten 0800 appointments to try and combat this. I’ve also never been seen by a doctor for longer than 5 minutes. It’s almost impossible to find a doctor that isn’t just pushing as many people through their office per day to maximize what they can bill the insurance companies. Outside of emergencies I just don’t even bother anymore and I have good insurance. The whole industry is fucked in America. I used to see a doctor who would routinely run 30+min late minimum. Every time Id see her wed get bogged down in needless small talk and she never seemed bothered that other people were waiting to see her. I can see how for some people this might be great but for me it just rubbed me the wrong way. I felt like I was the one having to rush out cause I had my problem solved and people were waiting. On the flip side I see a doctor now who runs 15min late maximum. I get everything I need done with her in 1015min minimal small talk but I get notes tests organised and referrals made. I LOVE HER. I can see how for some people though it would rub them the wrong way but for me shes perfect. My doctors are late to every appointment. The last one started a telephone appointment for someone else 10 minutes after my appointment was supposed to start. Then spent about 5 minutes giving the patient some generic advice about dog bites. That’s not spending extra time. That’s poor scheduling and thin walls. Wow I really want to move to whatever paradise youre living in where a doctor wont still try to brusquely rush you through the appointment in 10 minutes or less after walking in to your appointment 2 hours late It does not mean that at all it means he is sloppy and doesnt pay attention to or address details. I work nights so when I go to the doctor I make the first appointment of the day. Youre just wrong. First appointment is at 7am? The doctor isnt even in the office until 730. Then they sit in their office and chill until at least 8. Then they have to be wrangled by the nursing staff and forced into the exam room where they will spend as little time as possible before scurrying back into their office. Then theres the problem of lunch. No matter how far behind they are they are going to lunch on time. Lunch is 121. There are appointments scheduled for 12 1215 1230 and 1245. By the time they get back from lunch at 120 they are at least 7 patients behind Im always glad to not be the reason theyre late. The times I have been the reason a doctor is late Ive been so grateful to them for saving my life. This is not always true. I used to work for an orthopedic surgeon who scheduled his patients EVERY FIVE MINUTES. Thats about 60 patients a day. Of course he was routinely behind at least an hour but he got away with it because he was the only hams surgeon in the area. No I wait 1520 minutes just to feel like I’m the one being rushed. Or… the doctor is 1015 minutes late you’re in the waiting room as they run in and now their whole day is late. It could mean that. It could also mean their office is shit at scheduling and the doctor is futzing about in the break room. No if their patients need more time then they need to tell them to book longer appointments to fit it all in to that appointment. I dont have the time to sit around all day when I only need my scripts or to see the doctor for 2 minutes. Im sick of the what about other people screw you you have to wait attitude. I would prefer a strict schedule rather than a doctor that laughs and jokes with a prior patent but then gets upset cause youre asking too many questions wanting to know more about your condition Absolutely not. If my doctor is occasionally late fine. That’s understandable. If they are always late I’m finding a new doctor. I have an amazing doctor now who never seems rushed and she’s never been late. Because she’s a good doctor she doesn’t double book. If a doctor is double booking they’re the ones rushing to try to see all of their patients. I thought this about my doctor. Then I had to have an appointment on a day my schedule was tight. I asked what the first appointment of the day was it was 730. He showed up at 815 I can’t say I that knowing that the doctor is listening to a patient for 5 extra minutes would reduce my annoyance that they’re 2 hours late. The doctors can schedule appointments for however long they take Nah. Thats a nice concept but itd be better if they scheduled their appointments to allow for catchup time if that was necessary. Doctor running late? Sure nbd. Doctor running late by an hour consistently? Nah. I work in an adjacent field and while my boss doesnt like it I schedule in runover time with the practitioners *if* their schedules arent fully booked. Now sure its not the same issue. But the boss also begrudgingly allows the practitioners whove been there a while more time between appts than the new practitioners. The turnover is pretty high for new practitioners but we also dont have insurance companies to answer to for strict 15 min appt slots. I’m fine with it taking longer than expected because it does mean they’re taking the proper time with their patients and will do the same with me. However if this is a recurring issue why are the appointment slots not longer? I had to be here at a certain time … for why? My former doctor was just a yapper. He would tell all kinds of drawn out stories. Really interesting guy and i liked talking with him. But when i’m sitting there in the waiting room for 2 hours knowing he’s just telling some other patient about his backpacking trip in Mongolia its not as fun Physician here also married to a physician. I would agree with this. Thank you for your analysis. Doctor here. This is a complicated problem and varies based on a lot of factors. I strive to run my clinic on time and to be efficient as possible. We are thrown multiple curveballs per day which can throw things off. Scheduling is entirely beyond our control and is at the mercy of administrators who don’t have experience doing our job. I’m fortunate that I have to approve any overbooking and only do so thoughtfully… sometimes I will give up lunch or stay late. Some patients are complex and need longer visits but our schedulers don’t account for that and there really isn’t a way to give those folks a longer appointment until we have gotten to know them over several visits and I can plead with my admin. Some patients are not as complex but are more demanding and want to spend more time than they actually need. Some patients show up late but still need to be seen because they are so sick or still demand to be seen even though they couldn’t make it on time so I’m trying to find somewhere to squeeze them in to keep them from going ballistic. Occasionally someone will show up having a legit medical emergency and I’m working out how to get them to the hospital without dying in the office. Clinic staff can be really hit or miss as well. If my clinic MA is taking forever to get patients roomed and get vitals it’s not my issue but to the patient it seems like it’s my fault. Throw in any of the above plus a MA who can’t run things efficiently and you will end up waiting. I desperately want to respect your time especially if you try to respect mine by showing up on time. A lot of times it’s beyond my control. Or it could just mean theyre disorganized and/or dont respect your time. sometimes what you say is true but more often the facility overbooks so severely that everybody waits for hours and everybody still gets the bum’s rush. Ive watched a few of my doctors walk into the building an hour past my appointment times with restaurant takeout in their hand so not always lol even the nurses complain my main doctor always comes back late from his lunch. The only reason I still see him is because hes the only doctor that takes my chronic issues seriously and I schedule before his lunch now. Nah mine was two hours late and I still felt like I was being rushed and that the doctor was ready to move on to whoever was next. Or they could take that into account when scheduling If your doctor is always late they are overscheduling and dont care about your time. Im always seen in less than 30 minutes and can take as much time as I want. You need to find a new doctor If youre waiting an hour theyre overbooking. I’m a scribe. I work for a doctor. She’s an excellent physician and spends a lot of time throughly reviewing the patient’s medical problems. A lot of time she goes over her scheduled time with patients who have a lot of complaints. Additionally she works for a healthcare organization she has very little say in how many patients get booked. Physicals and new patients for example are supposed to be relegated to 40 minute time slots but most of the time they’re put into to her standard 20 minute time slots. So she provides an excellent level of care listens and explains things to her patients well and really does do her best to stay on time. But most of the time she can’t if patients come in with complicated cases or lots of complaints. I was sitting in my dr office the other day getting frustrated after having to wait 30 minutes past my appointment time especially because I specifically made the appointment as close to their return from lunch as I could get. When my doc finally came in she spent so much time with me answered every question explained everything so thoroughly. I literally thought to myself this is why I waited. Because she’s a good doctor who cares about and listens to her patients instead of rushing us out the door. Agree my doctor was ALWAYS late. By a lot. But I appreciated it because shes an amazing doctor and listens to every single concern. Always giving good advice and information. Never giving the brush off. It was frustrating until I got to experience how she is. When my wife was pregnant with our first one her ObGyn used to be late all the time. Once she was 2 hours late and we overheard her talk her nurses. The nurse was trying to tell her that there are many patients waiting. The doctor says Im at the stage in life that I cant be stressed. Go away!. We are like wtf? The doctor just liked to sleep in. Did a doctor write this? wtf. If youre waiting two hours it means theyre overbooking and NOT taking care of their clients Id say its an unpopular take but also a little ableist Im disabled I very much cannot sir on a waiting chair for 12 hours without being in much more excruciating pain than what I probably walked in with. I go to a eye clinic for monitoring and it’s always very busy. The last time I was there I waited 2 hours to see the doctor but they did put eye drops not dilation ones this time and ran a visual field test plus took pics of my eyes. I wouldn’t go anywhere else even with the long waits because these people care. Here’s a thought schedule less patients! Time to spend without making others simmer in the waiting room. I had a doctor go on a tangent about how woke North America is and a spew of bigoted thoughts. we argued back &amp forth for over 2 hours i guess we both got lost in the conversation. The clinic receptionist came in and asked the doctor to hurry it along I strongly disagree. Nothing at all wrong with him taking more time per patient but it is bad if the doctor doesnt do a good job of estimating how long they will likely spend with each patient. The schedule is based on how long it takes the doctor to see each patient which is something the doctor should know pretty well whether its 10 minutes or 45. My doctor forgot we were here. So idk about that one chief. I dont usually like this but Ill actually agree with this opinion for my current doctor. I always get annoyed waiting. I waited like 30 minutes after my appointment time once. Almost fell asleep in the waiting room. Then they called me in and I actually did fall asleep waiting in the office. I was in there for another 45 minutes. But when she came in she asked me everything didnt rush me solved my issues and she always codes things as preventative in the system so I dont get charged for diagnostic stuff. I realized that I always leave happy even with the 1.5 hour wait. I love my doctor. I just make sure to book extra sick time so Im not late back to work. I do feel bad for people who work hourly or who dont get sick leave though. I usually wait about 30 min. Once it was longer bc a patient had a medical emergency like ok that takes precedence but I actually agree with this one. I never feel rushed out the door except by my own anxiety If they cared that much they’d schedule bigger blocks of time. If the patient is in and out then they would have a block of time to catch up on records or whatever. But that would mean less patients and therefore less profit. Healthcare professionals aren’t there to chat they’re there to make money. And if they’re always running late to appointments they are bad at managing their time and that interferes with their patients lives. Also they could have procedures before lunch that end up taking longer which pushes everything back. I work with docs that do that all the time before having their clinic When I was training in family practice it was wild realizing that one patient who was 10 min late 15 min late would cause a cancel or had a lot of things to address which wasnt always booked appropriately could throw off the entire schedule. My preceptor would try very diligently to keep on schedule but at times it was impossible. That might sometimes be true. But it’s even more likely to because they have too many patients or the office is poorly run. If theyre an hour or two late for an agreed upon appointment theyre unprofessional and have poor time management skills. Thats not a reasonable amount of time for a doctor to be late for an appointment. Ridiculous. They should schedule fewer appointments then. I also have a schedule I’d like to keep to I make appointments when I do for a reason. My OB was always at least an hour behind schedule and I never cared. He always took time in appointments to answer every question and would always offer ultrasounds at every appointment. Never felt rushed and always felt heard and taken care of. I just knew to bring something to do while I waited. The one ob I saw before him had me in and out within 10mins and I left not knowing any more info than what a google search could tell me. Lol did a doctor write this? Trying to spin someone making you wait 2 hours as if its a good thing. As someone who used to work for a small practice doctor I can promise you its not. At his practice if you were waiting well past your appointment it wasnt because he was spending more time with patients. Its because he was reading a duck hunting magazine and your time just didnt matter to him. They always tell you to come 15 minutes early before the actual time in case of information change. Otherwise I don’t have to wait more than an hour to be seen. Maybe that’s why they ask you to come in early to offset this problem. There’s a limit. I know this one peds doctor that TALKS. Even his patients are like dude just treat me and let me go especially because you were an hour late and now I got things to do. Sometimes its because the doctor is great and cares. Usually in my experience its because the doctor is overbooked and rushes through your appointment. Whether that is because the front desk or corporation forced the overbooking or because the doctor chose it it doesnt really matter. I have waited 12 hours past my appointment time only to be met with a frenzied doctor who spends under 10 minutes with me and doesnt address any of my concerns. I have had some really wonderful doctors who take their time with appointments. They generally give themselves half an hour or more per appointment theres a long wait to get in with them and insurance doesnt always cover the visit. or just manage your time correctly and stop disrespecting everyone elses schedule? Part of this seems like a technological issue. If my doctor is 2 hours behind chances are a half hour ago he was at last an hour behind. I should get a push notification on my phone that my appointment has been delayed and given the option to keep or reschedule. Yeah no. My former endocrinologist was always HOURS late. Turns out it was because she never showed up on time and that would throw everything off. I used to take the first appointment at 8am because I got out of work at 7. If I could be on time after working 10 hours I think its only fair to expect the same of the person Im scheduled to see at 8. I get it life happens but if you consistently cant be on time to your first appointment start your schedule later Or if shows poor time management. Receptionists often overbook on purpose and many practices only allow about 15 minutes per patient especially if they’re owned by a government entity or insurance company. I go to a college based/named hospital. So when they’re running late it’s generally when it’s a med student that’s helping and it’s kind of the same thinking. I’ll gladly wait 2030 mins more so that this person who is going to spend their next 40 years in medicine gets a little bit of learning time. My doctor made me reschedule an appointment last friday for a Zoom appointment today. I waited for an hour and he just didnt show up. A specialist from the same clinic called later about an appointment and I asked to talk to reception. They said they made a mistake rescheduling the appointment. Now I need to take more time off work to zoom call this fucking doctor from my work.....at a hospital. Bullshit like this happens all the time. Im Canadian but our health care system isnt to blame for this bullshit. My doctor is. Finding a new GP though? Thats the systems fault. I once scheduled an appointment with an otolaryngologist and she ended up being 40 minutes late. She came in with a bottle of vodka. I guess it’s different though since this took place in Mexico I agree completely. Its annoying having to wait but thats just me being unconsciously selfish. Blind assumption. Sometimes they just dont give a fuck about your time. My cousins boss are late because sometimes they are playing online poker or shopping on Amazon or just relaxing because they dont really have to answer to anyone. Sometimes they are talking to patients and sometimes they are just dicking off. Ive also had to wait an hour after being the first appointment of the day. So nah lol. Yeah they usually aren’t late cause they are listening to other patients longer. I have seen doctors late because they are with sales reps drug reps insurance reps stuck rounding at the hospital late because other patients show up 30 min late and they try to squeeze them in. Had a doctor 2 hrs late cause he got a flat tire from a late surgery on his way back to his office. Hell sometimes they are just napping or straight up forgot. So yeah it doesn’t matter cause if it’s a habitual thing then you’re just bad at your time management. Post 14 The money is the root of happiness” idea is the wrong way to look at things I remember my dad saying once about a group of millionaires who owned a yacht. A TV interviewer came up to one of them and asked are you happy?” The guy said lady im on a boat that we paid for of course… Which made me think of people in places like slums in India that are poor who are perfectly happy. There are also people in the middle who have money but aren’t rich who can also be happy. And of course all of these people can be sad too and unsatisfied in life. Point is is that our society likes to gloat about the wrong and right way to do things. We are told that this is the right or wrong way to do things without first analysing what our priorities are. What do we really want? We never figure it out and when we do we’re too late and we waste a bunch of time. There’s nothing wrong with pursuing goals. Goals will come in due time. Some people get so invested in their goals that they don’t realise time is slowly ticking away and thats the problem. I could go on but I think Steve Hagan who is a Zen Philosopher has put this into words already and I don’t want to make this too long. It’s a great Delusion” as he calls it and we’re all deluded. Thx for reading Please remember what subreddit you are in this is unpopular opinion. We want civil and unpopular takes and discussion. Any uncivil and ToS violating comments will be removed and subject to a ban. Have a nice day! *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Living a life in line with your values is the root of happiness. That tends to be easier when you have adequate finances. You mashed two different sayings together into one nonsensical saying that also isnt an unpopular opinion in the slightest. The moderation on this sub is brainrotted. This is the kind of stuff that people who have never even come close to struggling come up with I have never heard anyone say Money is the root of happiness until this moment. Its not the root but it really fucking helps. Notice how rich people who whine about money doesnt buy happiness rarely ever get rid of the money? They can quit jobs divert trust funds to charities sell houses etc. to get to a spot they are comfortable but they dont Lets not glorify poverty. Please. I’m old enough to have been poor had money been poor again and had money again. Having money makes almost everything easier. There’s no substitute for peace of mind Of course its the wrong way of looking at things because the actual quote is money is the root of all evil. Lol I think the saying is Money cant buy happiness. Happiness is rooted in having enough money to afford a home food clothes and a reasonable standard of life. The big problem is that too many people work full time cant afford the basics and end up worrying about money all the time. Money buys security and stability a lack of it is more frightening than most people can imagine. money is the root of happiness ... is not a saying. Money isnt the root of happiness but it can sure as hell buy it. Anyone who tells you otherwise is a fool a liar or both. Yeah I guarantee whoever said for the first time that money can’t buy you happiness was probably a millionaire saying it to his staff earning minimum wage. Like Jeff bezos to Amazon employees. Money can buy near enough to any form of happiness… because it gives you back all of your time.. Like there is no problem in anyone’s life 100b couldn’t solve and problem free life opens you up to peruse things that make you happy This is not an unpopular opinion I’ve been poor and I’ve had money. The difference between the two wasn’t necessarily happiness but I am way less stressed with money to cover basic needs. The people who are poor and happy also tend to have sustainable food sources and shelter. This isnt an unpopular opinion at all but its easier said than done. Its hard to break away from the false sense of security that money brings because obviously if you dont have enough to eat you could starve to death or end up homeless but its hard to figure out where enough is. I feel like this unpopular opinion is like walking into an AA meeting and saying Hate to break it to everybody here but alcohol really isnt all that good for you. Pretty sure that the saying is money is the root of all evil.” Seems like you’re mixing your sayings. Money doesnt buy happiness but it sure does help. The peace of mind that comes with knowing I can pay my bills on time and have some stashed away for a rainy day is a luxury I could only dream of for the first 35 years of my life. I still found happiness when I was poor but the stress of struggling to pay rent and utilities takes a hell of a toll on your mental health. I am much happier now that I can put stuff on autopay and not accidentally throw my bank account into the negative. Buying things you dont need doesnt make you happy. It can actually increase stress in your life. The more you own the more headaches you can get. Bought a boat? Great now you have to pay for insurance maintenance moorage marina fees. Bought an investment property? Great now you have to renovate maintain it and maybe pay a management company to help run the rentals and a cleaning service. Then you have to give tips and bonuses to everyone that helps you. Added mental load all around. To be clear Im not saying dont buy those things but be aware of the added mental burden. Buying things that make a noticeable improvement in your life or makes things a lot easier for you does potentially improve your happiness. Tired of cleaning your house? Get a cleaning service to come every couple weeks. Tired of how long it takes to pressure wash the patio? Buy an attachment for the nozel that allows you to get it done in minutes. Want to enjoy your backyard in the summer but theres too much direct sun? Get an awning or pergola. I’ve heard the love of money is the root of all evil”. Not this one… And most ppl get the original incorrect. It’s the LOVE of money. It’s usually left off the beginning. Money isnt the root of all happiness but it helps you a lot. I would say living life in line with your values and achieving your goals is the root of all happiness but that tends to be easier with adequate finance. My wife and I both come from lower middle class upbringings. Actual lower middle class not the middle class that elite college students like to claim. We now make more money in a single year than our parents ever would have dreamed of making in a decade and the number keeps growing. But we live below our means — clearance rack clothes public school for our kids cook at home most days utilitarian car 1 vacay per year. We never worry about money and our frugality is a big part of why we feel so grateful day to day. If we were to try to keep up with the lifestyle of our nowfriends who come from generational wealth wed be miserable. I have never heard that quote. The one that I am familiar with is Money is the root to all evil money may not be that big of an advantage if a lot but surely is a problem when its lacking Money is the root of happiness. Its borderline impossible to be happy if you cant provide a good life for your family. Yes there is some poor people that are happy but they are mostly coping. They are poor and suffering so the most they can do is try their best to be happy and make a bad situation feel better but deep down inside they are dying and depressed. But rich or poor everyone will have low points and face their own type of problems. Rich peoples lives arent perfect all the time duh obviously no ones is. But overall rich peoples lives are 100x better than a poor persons. Rich people only sometimes say money doesnt buy happiness cuz they want to keep the poor people poor and dumb so they themselves can stay rich. Those people in the slums are happy because they don’t know any better. Post 15 Parenting/Family issues Mega Thread Please post all topics about parenting and family issues here Please remember what subreddit you are in this is unpopular opinion. We want civil and unpopular takes and discussion. Any uncivil and ToS violating comments will be removed and subject to a ban. Have a nice day! *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Its not a good thing for siblings to hate each other if this is happening you as a parent should be trying to figure out why and fix the issues between them. Wouldnt this make it so nobody can actually search for their familial issue and therein make this just a shit post where everything gets buried? I get the idea but idk if a megathread? Is that go to Children should have the right to change their names legally at the age of 13. Particularly if their parents give them a stupid name If your kid cant behave in a restaurant then dont take them to restaurants. Either teach them how to sit quietly and eat without making a huge mess or hire a sitter and go without them. If you dont have a sitter option well then I guess you cant go to restaurants for a few years until they grow up. Eating out is a luxury not a necessity you can do takeout or drive thru if you dont feel like cooking. No ‘wholesome’ moment posted online is wholesome just by the fact something private often vulnerable between a parent and child has been put up for anyone to see. Wholesome family content is just not really a thing You are entitled to a childfree lifestyle but a childfree world. Kids are going to exist in restaurants grocery stores planes etc. Sometimes theyre loud or annoying just like adults can be. Adults should be able to cope with a society of diverse people whether its diverse in terms of *age* race religion physical or mental health or anything else. idc if you want to sit peacefully on the restaurant and i know its not my kid but maybe my future doctor so dont give them that damn i pad every time its possible because you never know what they are watching behind that screen and cocomelon isnt that good either Post 16 Flowers are NOT a good gift I want to preface by saying that despite my opinion if I were given flowers or any gift for that matter I would be extremely grateful. Now with that out of the way I think flowers are not a good gift because of a couple of reasons 1. Unless the person you’re giving it to is really into flowers flowers are a very generic thoughtless gift 2. Whenever I see flowers gifted I almost never see them gifted with a pot/vase to go with it. Unless they’re already a flower person or have a couple of vases I find it kind of ridiculous that the person that is being gifted flowers would have to make a purchase for a separate object just to be able to get the full utility of the flowers. 3. Sure they may be a lovely sign that someone cares but the people who would most enjoy that sign are people who aren’t gifted flowers often I think anyways. And I think because of that the people who would most appreciate it are also the same people who wouldn’t be able to properly take care of them. 4. And lastly who likes the sight and the chore of flowers that eventually die??? Please remember what subreddit you are in this is unpopular opinion. We want civil and unpopular takes and discussion. Any uncivil and ToS violating comments will be removed and subject to a ban. Have a nice day! *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* I used to think the same way until I just thought of it as something beautiful to have in my space for a week or so. Something I wouldnt have bought myself. Some of those bouquets are so pretty but expensive. I dont know I think little things like that having some pretty fresh flowers on the kitchen table is so delightful. 🤷🏼‍♀️ The first point ... that basically counts for every gift ? Whatever you get a person if you know they dont like it its not a good gift. Has nothing to do with flowers. Same for point4 .... Me? Many others? Flowers are a popular gift for a reason. *Many* actually like them and appreciate them. Feels like you tried really hard to justify why since you do not like flowers no one should like them in order to build an unpopular opinion but truth is many sppreciate them and many dont there is nothing truly unpopular about not liking receiving flowers. What about dried flowers? nah i’m not a flower person but when flowers are carefully selected by someone for you it’s an incredibly sweet gesture. the entire purpose is to bring something beautiful in your life even if it’s for a mere few weeks. also you can tell when someone put thought into flowers and it’s sooo beautiful and endearing when they get it right. like when they pick out colors or styles that remind them of you or they remember your favorite flower. it’s one of those things that just makes you so happy because *they remembered* a lot of people already have so much stuff that what are you going to get them that they don’t already have? you can never get gifted flowers too many times. also ive never met someone who was annoyed at not having a vase and having to get one. usually it’s just overlooked when moving into a new apartment so they then just go get a vase. they’re also insanely easy to care for. water + the packet they put in your bouquet + flowers toss them when they get gross. or you can dry them which i do but the only ppl who do that genuinely want to. do i get the obsession over receiving flowers? no. but that doesn’t mean they’re not a good gift when done right. You must be under 30. Flowers are a good gift because people at some point don’t want stuff but they like getting a gift that will brighten up their house for a few days and then get rid of it. I have everything I want whatever you give me is just clutter which is why a good rule of thumb is only give gifts that are perishable after you hit a certain age I’m one of those people who adore flowers. It’s okay if they’re ephemeral.. There’s something kind of special about that. Like a lot of things in life they’re meant to be enjoyed while you have them. Just because something is fleeting doesn’t make it any less worthwhile. If anything loving it while it lasts feels like a small act of mindfulness. Flowers arent a gift theyre a garnish Kim Craig of Kath and Kim. I agree theyre not a good gift *for me*. Id much rather get a potted plant. But some people like to be gifted flowers. Ive never understood the argument that flowers are pointless because they die. Do we love spring any less just because winter eventually comes around? Is it stupid for kids to make chalk drawings on sidewalks just because the next rain will wash it away? Is all beauty a waste of time because it eventually fades? I like flowers because for a week theres something pretty to look at that is made special by the fact that it isnt always there and also it smells nice. Its something that makes me smile and feel uplifted when I look at it. The random bits of happiness in my day arent worth any less just because theyre the result of something temporary. They are a good gift because the the people receiving them largely do like them Some people really love getting flowers and I’ve never understood it but if they think it’s a good gift then I already know what to get them. I wish a woman would give me flowers. I agree to a point. I like to dry the flowers I get gifted so they can last a lot longer. But if I wasnt into drying them I wouldnt fully understand the idea of an extremely temporary and often expensive gift. I have delivered arrangements sent to my elderly parents for holidays/birthdays. They literally have everything they want and are on specific diets so food gifts are out. It might be kind of lame but I want them to know I am thinking of them and love them. It works. Different stages of life require different considerations. People really don’t keep at least one vase in their home? That’s so strange to me. Flowers can be extremely personal if you know what kind of flowers the recipient loves. And they can be a labor of love from the gifter if they’ve grown them themselves. I generally agree but your preface is exactly why it continues to be popular I kinda agree and disagree lol Ofc the person being gifted flowers should like flowers but i think it also depends on context lol. You’ve been dating for only 2 weeks and its valentine’s day? Flowers make perfect sense not too expensive you’re not in too much of a serious relationship yet. You’ve been dating 3 years and it’s her birthday? You can do better than *just* flowers unless she’s obsessed with them you know too much about her than to just get her basic flowers unless you’re broke which is valid. The economy is in shambles. Some people just love flowers and like to take care of them though. I think it depends on how much the people know each other/have been dating and how much they like flowers 🤷‍♀️ My parents always saw it as a waste of money for something that was just going to die in a matter of days. I’ve always seen it the same way. That being said my parents and sisters all have green thumbs and love plants. They will pick some of the flowers they have grown outside to bring inside sometimes. I don’t have a green thumb at all have one indoor bamboo plant and don’t do any landscaping just have a few shrubs that were here when we bought the house. I agree. Plus if you have pets they can be dangerous. Some flowers are poisonous to pets. There’s really nowhere in my home I could put them that my cats couldn’t get to them &amp chew them. Yeah get one of those fruit baskets looks good AND delicious Yes! My husband ordered a huge bouquet that cost over a hundred bucks after tax and delivery charges. I saw it on our Amex bill. Id rather have the hundred dollars. I coukd get some cosmetics a new pair of shoes or have a ball at the craft supply store. My best friend was tripping mushrooms in a legal state and she thought flowers were a great gift in the middle of her trip I hate flowers. I would be happy with a house plant though. I like flowers but I hate them due to the amount of lily centric bouquets there are. If someone got me a gift I’d prefer them to not harm my cats I agree. Flowers are a job. They need prepping and putting into a vase. The water needs topping up and then when they are dead the leafs and other debris all need cleaning up. I now see flowers as work. Not a beautiful gift. Mission accomplished this is indeed at least a moderately unpopular opinion! where I live flowers are only gifted in special occasions as a tradition. i thought it was like that everywhere but its actually pretty stupid of me now that i think about it I don’t want potted plants as a gift. My house is where plants go to die. I’m okay with cut carnations they seem to last the longest of all flowers. The only flowers I really have much of a use for are things like artichokes and broccoli tips. Otherwise leave ‘em on the plant I say. Agree. It’s a lazy gift. In warmer climates the flowers won’t last 2 days and if you put in a vase with water it attracts mosquitoes which brings about a host of other problems eg dengue. Maybe its regional but i usually see gifted flower arrangements in a vase from the florist to be entirely honest i’d be happier if someone gifted me fake flowers plastic paper lego etc than real flowers Yay... uh... youre giving me dead things? Totally acceptable for cats not so much for humans. I dont care for flowers as gifts at all. Cut flowers will always wilt and rot theyre already dead. I would much prefer a potted flower. Totally get where youre coming from! But once my little brother surprised me with Interflora flowers after my exam results it was so unexpected I cried a bit. 😅 They didn’t last forever but that moment did. I love having fresh flowers in my home. Its such a bright spot and they make me feel good. And I dont need any more things to clutter up my house. Flowers are the perfect gift for me. Or good coffee that works too. I enjoy it and its gone. dry the flowers after My sister w Alzheimer’s was THRILLED when I sent flowers for her birthday last year. Brought tears to my eyes and felt like the best gift I ever gave anyone. So I must push back. It was very expensive we’re talking a delivered arrangement. Can’t wait to send the same this year. +1 for Unpopular Opinion but this applies to any gift. If I got my Mom a really nice Belt Sander it would just as thoughtless because she has no use for it. Idk why but I’m not good a picking gifts for my Mom but she does like flowers. I always try to come up with something different but she always like the flowers best. I used to agree with this 100%. Then I ended up getting emergency surgery. No notice until i landed in the ER type thing. Then when I got home from the hospital a big bouquet of flowers arrived from a loved one who wanted to be there but couldn’t on such short notice. It made me feel so loved. Flowers don’t help anything at all they didn’t help me get dressed or eat but they made me feel less alone less down in the dumps about what I was going through. Now I don’t think flowers are silly anymore I hate getting flowers. Im always grateful for the thought and all but early in my marriage my husband brought home flowers for a special occasion. Our cat ate them and nearly died. Instead of a nice night we spend the evening in an emergency vet with a huge vet bill. Many flowers are toxic to pets. I agree. While I can appreciate a beautiful flower bouquet most of the flowers I got werent really my taste and felt both like a waste of money and a burden to take care of. Even the potted one. I cant successfully take care of a potted plant for the life of me so it will inevitably die after a while. Id rather get some potted herbs than a potted flower if someone really wants to gift me a plant. Sometimes I wish the flowers that are given to me are already in a vase however lately I’ve been taking them as a moment of self care in which I take my time thinking about the placement of the flowers. I also don’t want another generic vase to me a lot of times the ones that come with bouquets are ugly/don’t go with my house 🫢 However i absolutely love when my husband brings me back flowers whether or not they’re in a vase. He usually doesn’t have a lot of time so the thought of him going out of his way to bring me some to just to make me smile means so much i got flowers sent from my sister for my 16th birthday and i still think about it 7 years later. i wish i got flowers more often Im a huge flower person. I love the carefully thought out bouquets my husband has prepared for me over the years. And all the flowers hes grown for me. On our first date I gave my wife an single Star Gazer Lilly. I had met her through a friend that worked with her and we had talked some on a couple happy hours. I asked for her number and then after some back and forth asked her out. I wanted to give the girl I was taking on a date a unique flower. Ive always liked Lillys so selected the Star Gazer... now its her favorite flower and I get it for her on our anniversary and randomly. A single stem flower was just to show that I was thinking about her prior to our date. Also her dog died a few weeks later when I found out I sent her flowers to her work with a vase. Most flower delivery places whether they be local or online have an option for a free cheap glass vase or so cheap compared to the price of the flowers its inconsequential. Most people have drinking glasses at home that make fine vases in a pinch. But I can see your point if someone were to give a person a huge brocade of flowers with no vase. That might be inconvenient. But still its the thought that counts. And like I said most places include a vase. Edit autocorrect changed a word Adding in that many bouquets have lilies which are DEATHLY toxic to cats so I sometimes fear a friend will leave some behind when I’m not home this has happened before and cost me a few thouso in vet bills I dont really think that flowers are meant to be an actual gift. I always saw them as just a token of acknowledgement. I like flowers. But I much prefer them potted. I do not have a green thumb but I do my best to keep them alive as long as possible. Cut flowers are already dead. But they have their uses. And last time my kid got them they dried a few of each for mementoes. I think flowers are good as a spur of the moment gift or supplementary to another gift. Like you randomly visit someone and bring flowers thats nice. But if you show up to place where you normally give gifts like birthdays you should have something to go with it I think the problem is moreso the person giving the flowers. There are men who only get flowers as a cheap way of apologizing or do it on special occasions in lieu of a more thoughtful gift so some women associate flowers with negative feelings instead of positive ones. I’m a just because” flowers guy. In the process of buying flowers I’ve had people ask me what I’m apologizing for or what the special occasion is etc. The idea of it has just been a while since I bought my SO flowers and wanted to surprise them was baffling. I think flowers are a fine gift. You seem to forget that flowers can be symbolic or tradition for some situations. An example in my life is Mothers Day. My maternal grandfather brought my Mom Yellow Roses when visiting her in hospital after giving birth to me and my siblings. Since his passing and being old enough to afford them. I get my mother Yellow Roses every Mothers day. That isnt all I do for her but its symbolic and sentimental for her. I love flowers and Ive only gotten them as a gift a couple times in my life. Id be thrilled if someone gave me flowers. Flowers are amazing. Lights up your life. Wheres your Joy! Wheres your whimsy! Do you not skip in early spring when the world is waking up! I agree with the first half of point 3. The second half of point 3 doesn’t apply to me. While I don’t get gifted flowers often I do know how to take care of them. Flowers are a good gift if you know how to make a beautiful bouquet out of it using 3 different flowers. For example roses sunflowers and baby breath. Combine these 3 and you have a very beautiful bouquet. Cue flowers by Miley Cyrus playing All that matters is whether the recipient thinks it’s a good gift. I looked at buying my mom a bouquet for Mothers day. Even on sale it was going to be $60. There are gifts she would enjoy more that would cost the same like taking her out to eat. I love receiving flowers as a gift. They’re so pretty and can really just brighten up my mood. What I also like about them? I don’t have to care for them for a long period of time like all the plants I get gifted. I don’t have a green thumb. Plants will die entering my home. Especially if they need to be repotted. And then I feel so guilty. Maybe one day I will be better at keeping them alive and caring for them… but right now I don’t. Flowers? You tend to them for a week or two and then you know they will go into the compost bin. There’s no guilt attached to it. last partner i had i explained to her yeah i don’t like flowers as a gift i wont take care of them.” and she consistently bought me flowers everytime i bought her flowers she did take care of them and i usually put them in a vase for her. i 10000% get u on this one. Agreed. Ive thankfully only gotten flowers once or twice and I just dried them to maybe use in stuff I make at some point idk. Like sure it can be a nice gift but imo most ppl just gift others it because its the easy/expected thing rather than actually getting something someone would like. Like Ive been gifted a dr pepper candle and loved it because there was thought put in and a joke about my love of soda. If they gifted me flowers Id thank them but mentally Id be like 😐 cause itd show lack of thought about the gift. Take my upvote I love flowers and I just looked at the ones I was given sitting on my counter when I typed this out. And I’m not particularly into flowers or growing plants. I got my Mom some fake metal plastic painted light up rose in a display jar as a last minute gift from 711 for mothersday and SHE FUCKING LOVES THAT FAKE PIECE OF SHIT FLOWER. People who got their moms like straight up plants in actual vases were being stunted on in the restaurant by my piece of shit china crap because it was shiny and had lights. People thought it was expensive it wasnt All those other flowers? certainly dead. My piece of shit? is sitting in the window stand right now. Im the exact opposite I love flowers but ffs I do not need another vase! I agree with this Ive never liked flowers as a gift. Theyre beautiful but theyre temporary. I prefer a gift I can get longterm practical or recreational use out of. Even a candle lasts longer. I feel the same way about scratchoff tickets for a different reasonthe game of it is not a gift to me and all youre doing is getting me the possibility of something material. Theres nothing more disappointing than someone getting me a scratchoff me playing it and winning no money. Youve effectively spent your money to get me nothing. Just get me the tangible material thing that I 100% know I will end up with. Same I like flowers in a garden or in nature. I dont like them dying in my house. Most people will have something to put them into and flowers give you joy. As a child i also thought flowers were rediculous the are expensive and only last for a couple of days. So i gave everyone a cactus. Thinking backwards maybe that wasnt the best thing to do because maybe nobody wanted a cactus that remains there unless given water now and then. Flowers just disappear after a short wile. Post 17 Kids dont need a PreSchool Graduation I dont have kids but both my sisters do. And I have been constantly been invited to attend various graduation ceremonies little Emma graduating pre school want to come no little Emma graduating from grade 5 to 6 you want to come No! It got to the point with 6 nieces and nephews I told them let me know when they finish High school and college then I will come. Its not just coming to the ceremony its also expected of you to bring a gift it gets expensive and time consuming and not to mention dinners Please remember what subreddit you are in this is unpopular opinion. We want civil and unpopular takes and discussion. Any uncivil and ToS violating comments will be removed and subject to a ban. Have a nice day! *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* The kindergarten graduations I have seen have always been kind of a cute thing they do for the kids and the parents but I havent ever seen it made into much of a celebration beyond that. I mean if they want to have a BBQ and use it as an excuse to have a family gettogether I can see that but its not a high school or college graduation. I wouldnt feel obligated to attend or buy a gift. I have never heard of anyone expecting a graduation gift for preschool or 5th grade graduation.” That would be really odd. I agree either way that the whole kindergarten graduation” thing is really silly but at the same time it’s not a big deal and isn’t harming anyone If you do live near your sisters try to go to your nieces and nephews 5th grade graduations.” Yes obviously it’s not a super important or awesome accomplishment but they’re leaving elementary school and it probably feels like a big deal to them in the moment. Plus also they’re your nieces and nephews and they grow up so much faster than you realize. So cherish the time you have with them. Need it? No but it can be fun. I wouldn’t be expecting anyone to bring a gift or come to a dinner though Life is short and childhood even more so take these opportunities to stop and appreciate life’s milestones even if you feel they are trivial. In a time when loneliness is at an all time high we should be spending more time together. youre missing the entire point..... its a time to watch your kids and family be family and celebrate... the kids usually think its cool and they get excited about getting dressed up with friends and have their favourite food &amp get awards etc.... its great seeing that... it creates memories and thats why you should go nothing is better than seeing your kids and family happy.... also often if you tell a kid their event doesnt really matter like you pretty much did that kinda sticks with them makes them upset Oh the horror. How will you manage to survive? Actually milestones for development are crucial in children. Marking these developmental milestones through the passing of school grades is one of those methods. It lets the child know that theyre growing up and theyre going to be taking on more responsibility more work etc. Not even an unpopular opinion a cheapskate one. Your neices and nephews are only going to grow up once best you participate before you become a stranger to them. Or worse that cheapskate aunt/uncle... or that mean one with the frown all the time. Take joy in their growing and create memories of happy family moments. They definitely don’t. Buttttt they look so cute in their cap and gown and they get so excited over their first year of school”. It’s so cute The graduations are big milestones for the kids and a great time to get photos with friends and teachers. In my experience these are small and quick. They give some individual awards or something and there are light refreshments at most. Mostly its parents and grandparents. They only invited you because of large family dynamics. Its OK to politely decline. You can be supportive of your nieces and nephews in other ways. Kids dont need a high school graduation then. The graduation is to celebrate the kids. Be happy for your niece/nephew suck it up and go celebrate them. It’s odd to me that people would invite nonimmediate family members to these but the existence of them is fine. Sure it’s not needed but so are most things. I feel bad for your family having to deal with you So you wouldnt attend your own childs graduation if you ever had a child? If you say yes talk about double standards. Is it silly? Sure. But its something that kids can look forward to. Its an achievement for sure. No one is asking you to bring them 100$ each time they graduate thats just silly. Buy a small toy as a gift. Be there for your family its not that hard even if you do find it silly. They will look back at those pictures and ask why auntie wasnt there and their parents will say well because your auntie didnt find it important enough to come. If you want them to grow up thinking that they werent important enough for their aunt be my guest but dont complain when they dont invite you to their high school or college graduation. If celebrating even small wins in kids’ lives that you love is so stupid…I would hate to be related to you jfc lmao Do you just not go to family gatherings or see the kids? My kid had to stop preschool before his graduation due to Covid. I was looking forward to it. Is it silly? Sure. But is it freakin adorable? Yes! But a gift? Thats seems like an issue with your family not the population as a whole. Oh noooo celebrating and encouraging children. How horrible of parents to invite family to do so. In the US preschool graduation is the sacred celebration of being done paying $1500/ month for childcare and enrolling in public school. The ceremony is for the parents more than anything but it does also benefit the kids and the celebration as a family after the ceremony is for the kids. It reinforces an early accomplishment and helps encourage them to strive for more. They feel special and see how their support system shows up. It’s not a cash grab or even about the money. It’s about acknowledging milestones and acclimating the kids to celebration when they reach milestones. It’s wholesome encouragement. Nobody NEEDS any graduation ceremony just like nobody NEEDS school dances. Theyre just nice things to have. Im in the UK and we only have graduations at university. It does seem a bit frivolous to me. Congrats you did something every other child in the country did. Its just to make them like school. Its not serious. Lol say no to the invite and move along. Can’t stop everyone celebrating small achievements. r/rant I grew up without kindergarten graduation and middle school graduation. I graduated from high school once which is something that deserves to be celebrated. I graduated from college twice. I received gifts for high school graduation but nothing for college. That could be the only time some graduate. Never seen others invited or expectation of gifts. This kind of graduation is about five minutes with them dressing in a gown for a cute ceremony rather than kicking them out on their last day without acknowledgement basically. I dont understand kindergarten graduation bc the kids stay in the same school. Theres not a big difference between kindergarten and 1st at my school same building same playground same library etc. Preschool graduation makes more sense to me bc most kids in my area attend private preschools so they will switch schools and no longer attend their old one. I can tell youre the joy of the party If your argument is about being pushed to attend someone elses graduation and having to dress up and bring gifts and whatnot then yes thats just lame. But if you think theyre lame for the parents themselves then no they want to be able to celebrate their children at the end of the school year. I dont have kids…” lost me there. We did a ceremony for 5th grade sang a song gave out a few awards our teachers gave speeches but Id never seen schools doing caps and gowns and actual graduations for things before high school until the last 10 years. I think for kindergarten and preschool its definitely important to do something to mark the transition its big and scary for a 5 year old who barely got used to school to now be meeting a new teacher walking through the school staying all day etc. But the kids arent the ones making the connection between graduation caps and gowns diplomas and transitioning to the next exciting thing thats the adults who want cute pictures that connect those things. Which honestly I think is fine but for the transition to middle school or high school I think a small ceremony is plenty. I have kids. They never had a graduation except high school college etc. I dont really understand the rest. I swear we make kids think getting to jr. high is an accomplishment. It’s fun for the kids the parents and the parents land IME the grandparents are very excited to do those things. No one was expected to bring gifts. Have my upvote because while I think it’s cute to celebrate the kids they aren’t graduating they’re promoting to 1st or 6th or whatever. Schools and parents shouldn’t distill the act of graduating after completing the coursework the degree etc. Ive seen people use anything for a celebration. A Preschool one is just another one I honestly dont remember mine. Only 8th grade and high school Getting expensive gifts though? I only got stuff for my high school because there was a party except my parents because thats what they did Preschool graduation is also more of a want for the parents and kids I disagree. It may not be a real need but it is an acknowledgment of the kids’ progress. Most kids don’t get enough acknowledgment for their achievements so…\ \ On a personal note I couldn’t attend high school graduation because of the noise. So these smaller graduations” were the closest I will ever get to that experience. It’s a small thing but having as close to a normal experience as possible is important to me. My pre school graduation I can remember pretty vividly. We made the hats in crafts and then had a little concert for the parents. Why are we so concerned about the need” for things. There wasn’t a need for it but I have a great memory of it and at the time it was very exiting. It’s simply a celebration of accomplishment I don’t see how you can be so against it just doesn’t make sense to me. Prek to elementary is a big change elementary to middle school is a big change middle school to highschool is a big change highschool to post secondary is a big change. You might not feel a sense of pride with that but many people myself included do. As a preschool teacher I agree! I don’t want 40+ extra people in my classroom2ish per kid. To watch kids sing a song and me say their name. Half the kids are upset either from preforming infront of others or because their parents didn’t come. Then all of a sudden my classroom is over 80 degrees and I have to watch every kid and deal with their families while sweating. And I teach preschool at an elementary school so 90% will be back next year anyways. It’s not like anyone doesn’t pass and make it to kindergarten. It might be the highest grade some reach in the USA so it’s probably necessary Keep going and you might even save money on gifts and dinners for high school and college graduation too. I agree OP i think having a graduation is fine but treating a preschool graduation like its something other people will care about is bizarre. its just a celebration for the parents and i genuinely do think its just for the parents. no one else is that excited about it. my cousin had an elementary school graduation recently and all the kids were sitting there rolling their eyes like do we really have to do this while the parents were cheering. i had an elementary and middle school graduation and i had the same experience. none of us cared but our parents were thrilled. Okay Mr. Incredible I’ll give the +1 because this is an unpopular opinion but I don’t think saying your sisters take these moments too seriously if they’re expecting gifts for all the kids would be unpopular. I used to hate them before I had kids but now I’m fine with it. It’s fun to celebrate things together and to just come together as a school and family community. Also for many kids school is hard especially the little ones who maybe had a tough time transitioning and it can be great to celebrate their resilience. It’s just a fun little thing to do. That being said we never have anyone give our kids gifts and there are low expectations for extended family to come. We don’t make it a huge deal just a fun little thing. We extend the invite and usually one of the grandparents or an aunt can come but it’s not a big deal. I could see how if attendance at all of them plus a gift was expected and they aren’t your kids it could be annoying. What is life without a little ceremony? Kinder grad” at our school is a walk around campus with a paper hat they made. The fifth grade the highest grade at our school lines up and cheers them on and makes a tunnel they run through. Parents take pictures of it. It’s cute. That’s all it is. Not a huge deal. The kids love it as they should. They are super proud of being big” kids now and getting to go to the big” kids playground next year. It’s perfect. Parents may or may not have a cake at home to celebrate. My kid got ice cream after and her grandparents sent her Lego which she thought was amazing. She is going into 3rd now and fully expects a larger Lego set for 5th grade graduation. i agree to the Nth degree! the new generations the last two/three seem to believe theyre among the first ever to have superstar children that actually graduate preschool and want others to recognize their stellar accomplishments with gifts I actually think preschool makes more sense than kindergarten. agree so i downvoted. graduations are stupid unless youre getting a degree or certificate of completion otherwise its like having a celebration for each course someone completes I can taste the bitterness all the way from here. My favorite was an 8th grade graduation announcement I got recently. Now I know 8th graduations have become a thing but this one actually included the line in the fall Jimmy will be attending &ltmain high school in our area that everybody goes to . Like NO SHIT. Did people think he was headed directly to Harvard? Was there some sort of hard decision that had to be made to yknow *not drop out of high school before your freshman year begins*? Reminds me of that scene from Pixar’s the Incredibles that is burned into my mind because when I was a kid The Incredibles was always in the DVD player in our minivan and I’d watch it any time we’d go somewhere. And the remember the exact script of many scenes. You didn’t even go to your own son’s graduation” It’s not a graduation! He moved from the 4th grade to the 5th grade” It’s a ceremony” It’s psychotic! They keep thinking of new ways to celebrate mediocrity! But if a child is truly exceptional This isn’t about you Bob it’s about Dash” You want to do something for Dash? Let him compete! Let him try out for sports!” Honey you know why we can’t do that” Because he’d be GREAT!” This is not! About! You!” I think it depends on the relationship. I got onto my sister a few weeks ago because my niece and nephew had their final recitals for middle school band and choir and she didn’t invite me because she knew how busy I was and didn’t want to stress me out by adding more to my plate. I was sad I’d missed out! I told her I was perfectly capable of saying no to things and to please let me be the one to decide what is too busy for me but I potentially could have adjusted our schedule because I love them and want to be there to support them. I was absolutely at their kindergarten graduations. And previous recitals. With flowers for niece and bouquets of beef jerky for nephew in hand. No gifts were expected and they were genuinely surprised and appreciative of what I did bring. And we absolutely did dinner afterwards because I love spending time with my sister and her husband and kids. And my kids love being around their aunt uncle and cousins. I know 100% that different families have different dynamics. I’m close with my sister but I also have a brother that isn’t allowed to know where I live because he’s an addict that prefers robbing family members to finance his habit. That’s why I’m not saying you should be like our family—just be mindful that not everyone is like you. I’d personally be hurt if my sister stopped inviting me to her kids’ elementary and middle school events. Imma be honest even elementary and middle school graduations are stupid. What’s the point? Moving on to the next step of life? Still stuck in school for the next few years. At least in college you learn things needed for jobs and is a change of pace from high school making that graduation not pointless Many ceremonial or just fun little events are not needed. We really don’t need a high school or university graduation ceremony but some people enjoy them. They might be a little silly but there’s no guarantees on life. My aunt unexpectedly died before I graduated high school but she saw my Eighth grade crossing over ceremony. My kiddo graduated” from preschool last week. Husband and I took him out for $1 ice cream cone afterwards and bubble solution for his backyard machine. We went to a preschool promotion party yesterday for one of his little friends… talk about extra. Lol You are right...but parents do. 😎 I agree with you. These are for the parents/primary caregiver. Expecting extended family to come is insane. We are doing children no favors by teaching them the world revolves around them. We only had elementary middle school and high school. And my elementary went to 6th grade. It wasnt major till high school though. And it wasnt called graduation it was called promotion. We never did parties dinners or any of that crap. It was more of a hey congrats you passed now get the hell out lol I have two boys and those little milestone graduations are fun...but Ive never made it a big deal that all of the family has to come. My mom usually does but my sister is 3 hrs away from me so that would be ridiculous. Ive never heard of anyone doing gifts for those little graduations. Usually grandma attends and then we all go out to dinner and then call it a night. When i was a kid we didnt have things like that. What we did have was a constant whine of Why do we need this when will this matter I want to be swimming about basic subjects like Algebra. If those graduations get kids caring more about school and feeling a sense of accomplishment then I say hell yeah! Yeah how dare people want to support their children as they learn grow and reach milestones. 🙃 All youve done here is show how little you know about human development. You dont have to attend if you dont want to but the joyous feeling that the kids will likely feel will leave them remembering that accomplishment possibly *wanting more*. If we didnt celebrate little milestones people probably wouldnt be as motivated. My mom has my preschool kindergarten elementary school middle school 8th grade high school and a copy of college diplomas. She tried to give them to me and I told her Id throw away everything she got upset and kept them. Im an only child and she thought I would use them as decor. Parents are...weird sometimes. Having a support system and celebrating milestones is important for children. I have seen the difference between my family and my fiancé’s family approach to our upbringings and observed our confidence socialization skills closeness and openness with our family etc. The difference is obvious. You can show up without a gift or eat beforehand and not eat a full meal at the restaurant/outing. Life is meaningless unless we create the moments and give them meaning and demonstrating that we care. if you don’t want to go don’t. someone who doesn’t want to be there is not wanted there anyway. i wish people understood this. people invite you as a courtesy. they don’t want you to come if you’re not into it and especially if you’re going to be miserable. as an aunt i love any opportunity to get together with my siblings and nieces/nephews so i enjoy these things. it’s fun. but if you dont like it that’s okay. to each their own. instead of harboring resentment politely decline. Nor do they need an 8th grade graduation! Do I think these things are kind of ridiculous? Yes. But they’re mostly designed to make kids think people care about them &amp their education. It’s more of a tool to keep encouraging kids to like school and learn. But I’m glad my school now my niece’s doesn’t do that stuff bc I don’t want to go 😂 What about 8th grade graduation? I didnt even know that was a thing until I moved to the Midwest. My kids had a full cap and gown ceremony with diplomas when they graduated 8th grade. I guess at least they dont do preschool graduation here. Hell no! Graduating high school and college yes celebrate. Kindergarten? I have way better things to do then that b.s. I cant stand kids to begin with. My younger kid had a preschool graduation it was a small thing and the whole class did a dance which was fun to watch but it could have just been an end of year party and not a graduation one. I dont know if my kids school actually had a ceremony for kindergarten graduation but they did sell us graduation photos which we still have up on our fridge. It would be ridiculous to invite anyone outside of the kids immediate family to one of these things though. They dont need an elementary or middle school grad either. Preschool Graduation. Main course are chicken fingers. Everyone to Raising Canes 🤔🤦‍♂️ Kids don’t need a lot of what they are currently being given and they need a lot of what they aren’t being given. Lol its not for the kids. I mean they love it but its not for the kids. Preschool sure. But grade 56 was a pretty big jump for me tbh. For them it’s a big moment and depending on how present you are in their lives it could mean a lot to them. I agree with your point. Kindergarten graduations teach kids to celebrate things that arent accomplishments. What was the alternative failing kindergarten? That said I suspect these nonmilestone milestones were created because some kids dont have support at home and for them there is a case to be made that too much encouragement is better than not enough. I think all graduations at the high school level and below are dumb They dont need an overthetop 1year birthday party either. Exception might be if child had a serious illness and wasnt expected to make it to that age. Otherwise it seems SO pointless. Bullshit. How else will they know what to do during TK graduation? I agree. Although the biggest stepping stone for me was going from elementary school to junior high. Elementary was local junior high was an hour away more on the bus. I did not celebrate high school because I thought it was a joke. I had already gone to high school in Canada and France and finished in the US where diplomas were just participation trophies. This isn’t an unpopular opinion. The vast majority think they’re stupid. But you get the school and that one parent and they just think we must have them and that we want to go. Hell I didn’t even want to go to my own kid’s graduation” events like this. They’re not really graduations and absolutely pointless. You don’t have kids and so listening to you opinionize about them is a joke. Sounds like you don’t like your family. It’s just a party for your niece and an excuse to hang out with family and friends. Waaaah I don’t like cute events that kids have fun at woe is me” Maybe its just me but I love my nieces and nephews and am excited to celebrate their accomplishments. Bragging that you’re a jerk weird flex Come back when you have kids and you will understand the point. As a parent I can’t explain something to you that you would never understand no matter what Literally posted here all the time. Not that unpopular. Post 18 Companies should respond to every application I am so sick and tired of applying to so many companies only to never hear back from them. I’ve spent hours submitting resume only on the very next page to fill out the same information that’s in my resume! However I do it anyway because I need a new job only to never get response back. Did they even look at my resume? Was there a problem with it? Any concerns with my qualifications? I feel like if I’m spending my time to insert the same information twice and answering any other of the 20+ questions on your website or emailing the companies directly I should at the very least get a response that my application has been viewed? It would be a nice bonus to know why I got denied so that I know what I can work on for the future. I feel like I’ve submitted all my info just for it to be lost in the void along with millions of other applications. Am I crazy? Searching for a new job sucks Please remember what subreddit you are in this is unpopular opinion. We want civil and unpopular takes and discussion. Any uncivil and ToS violating comments will be removed and subject to a ban. Have a nice day! *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* For about 2 years I have been on the other side where I hire 1 or 2 entry level positions a year with these job listing sites. I found that they autoposted two job listings from the company website where I work. I think a truth many of us are or have been overlooking is a good number of these job listings dont even go to anyone. I shared this on another post and it seemed like people dont know this. I spoke with a rep from the job listing company and he straight up used the word webcrawler to describe the process. That phone call was like 1 month ago. I get wanting this but its not really worthwhile for HR to give feedback to candidates that arent chosen. I think recruiters should be better about doing this tho Good companies do. You’ve obviously never hired anyone. Replying to every applicant would be a colossal waist of time. People pay money to get resume critiques it would be a boon if companies did it for free Auto generated response I agree. That’s not an unpopular opinion. But a full personalized response on why they were rejected is simply not possible. The last role that I hired for had nearly 300 applicants in 3 days. I once got a rejection email from an HR department 8 months after I applied. I had already written them off and moved on with my life. Then this HR lady took time out of her day to reject me 8 months later. Ironically 2 years later I actually got hired for another role at the same organization. About a year into the job I applied internally to another role lateral move. They still had to advertise externally. It took 6 months. Multiple interviews and multiple candidates. Then they offered the job to someone else and they waited several weeks before the guy accepted. Then I got rejected again by the same HR person. Job hunting sucks In theory I would love something like that. In practice even assuming they don’t automate the responses with AI the best you’d get is a template the company has on file that they drag and drop the names in/out of. You’d get the same boilerplate rejection and platitude advice that every other rejected candidate gets. Sure a human looked it… glanced at it. It doesn’t matter what rule you impose on companies. They will find a way to streamline the process and cut costs to hiring. I’m by no means an expert but I’ve hired summer students before and there is no way I’d have time to send rejections to everyone and some people clearly didn’t even read the application before applying like applying from a different country when the position is in person or being way older than the clearly stated age limit they might be great candidates but I literally couldn’t hire them if I wanted to. Just sifting through résumés is time consuming enough let alone interviews and onboarding while also needing to keep up with my actual job. If the job application site my organization uses had a send rejection” button I’d use it for at least the really obvious ones but I don’t have time for anything more time consuming than clicking a single button. Yeah it’d be nice to get an official rejection and some companies do but having been a little on the other side I get why many don’t especially if you’re dealing with hundreds of applications. I mean that’s cool until you’re the hiring manager with 900 applications. In most places the hiring manager is the same manager that the person will work for meaning they still have their normal day to day tasks to do. I see both sides of this argument. HR posts a job online asking for XYZ experience and get 90% return of people having only Y experience in 2000 applications a week. So you have to weed them out. But there should be an automated rejection when you get weeded out. Would you trade it for what people had pre1995? I manage the ATS for my company and track recruiting metrics on a weekly basis. This includes how many applications we get in each business region job type etc. As a whole we get 2000 to 3000 applications per week. Even with 20 people reviewing applications what you are requesting isnt happening. The volume is just too high with how the job market is now. not practical considering the number of applications. As a manager I don’t have time to give feedback to 150 rejected applicants. Many of them are spammers who apply to every job whether they’re qualified or not. If you don’t hear back in a week or so you’re probably out of the running Post 19 I hate love triangles I hate love triangles so much specifically the kind where the main character is dating their boyfriend they break up she finds another love interest and then she gets back together with the first guy. In the second kissing booth movie Elle is dating Noah and then she likes Marco Noah and her break up and then she gets together with Noah again. In the new season of Ginny and Georgia Ginny and Marcus break up she likes a new guy Wolfe and then she gets back together with Marcus. There’s other examples like in To All the Boys I’ve Loved Before 2 where this exact trope happens and I hate it. It’s so stupid to me how they fall in love with someone else who’s better than their ex and then get back together with their ex in the end even though they had chemistry with the new guy. I wish there was one movie or show like Legally Blonde where the main character has a love triangle but they don’t end up getting back together with their ex. It’s just lazy writing and I don’t know why people like this trope so much. Please remember what subreddit you are in this is unpopular opinion. We want civil and unpopular takes and discussion. Any uncivil and ToS violating comments will be removed and subject to a ban. Have a nice day! *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* misread this and went okay well I do know some people who have a complicated relationship with geometric shapes so Ill take a look. and then I read the actual post and Im kind of disappointed. I love hate triangles Make up your mind do you hate or love triangles? I tried to care about what you had to say op. I really did. About halfway through the post I stopped caring and couldnt finish reading it. Im sorry. I still cared enough to comment and let you know that I put in minimal effort though Big fan of Bizzare Love Triangle Dont be so obtuse I love isosceles triangles Man I came here to see a rant about shapes wtf I LOVE hate triangles I prefer love dots. I prefer right triangles. Can never go wrong with them Post 20 English should just ditch the word affect and instead use effect for everything Honestly in most cases where the word affect should be used most laypeople will use the word effect instead. Its more natural and most people are gonna dedicate the time to learning the difference when to use each version. I have learned the difference serval times but it just doesnt stick like other similar types of words like youre/your their/there/theyre and too/to. Its a seperate debate if we should stop using those as well and go to one spelling Im not in support of that. But specifically when it comes to affect/effect this particular combo I believe should just be one spelling since the version that starts with an a is too hard to recall how to use it. But they are two totally different words? People can just try a little harder they are different words that have significantly different definitions…. I mean over time if enough people use effect instead of affect it will naturally phase out that’s how language evolves Verb = affect Noun = effect Its very straightforward 98% of the time. Yes there are exceptions where its swapped effect can mean to bring about a change and affect can be an observable display of emotion but its very rare that thats going to be the case and you can go your whole life without needing to use them. So people should have a blunted effect instead of a blunted affect? no Please remember what subreddit you are in this is unpopular opinion. We want civil and unpopular takes and discussion. Any uncivil and ToS violating comments will be removed and subject to a ban. Have a nice day! *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* It would make more sense to use affect instead of effect since affect is both a noun and a verb. The difference in these 2 words is typically taught as affect = action” because the alliteration makes it easier to remember. However affect as a noun is a set of observable manifestations of an experienced emotion the facial expressions gestures postures vocal intonations etc. that typically accompany an emotion” per MerriamWebster. At the end of the day English is a crazy language with a lot of weird grammar rules. Simply stay in school kids and pick up the occasional book and you too can differentiate between effect/affect easily. the internet has taught me that english class is optional in America I think I learned this from reddit. But I gave up on affect/effect and just go with **impact** ! Or not I dont even know why people find it hard they are pronounced slightly differently even? Peoples lack of education cannot be mitigated by changing everything around them to make them feel more comfortable. They are different words because they have different meanings. Should we also get rid of their there and theyre because they are all pronounced the same but mean vastly different things? Language is hard! Why do you only support limiting words you cant keep straight but not others that you can? Is your grasp of language the definitive standard by which formal language decisions should be made? Thats. No. Affect is most often used as a verb effect is most often used as a noun. Thats like saying that bear and beer should be combined into one word because theyre pronounced the same way. wrong. different words different meanings. I agree the English language is hard enough to learn. Why make it harder? People could actually learn the language they profess to know .. or would that be to/too/two much effort as long as people understand what you actually say? Or people should stop being lazy This doesnt sound more natural in the slightest. Its also not really swappable. Im all in the usage makes rules and linguistics approach to languages evolution. But your excuses/reasoning are absurdly wrong Its a seperate debate SEPARATE. Post 21 Being in the hospital nonemergency can actually feel kind of nice Obviously not talking about being in critical condition or anything lifethreatening. But once you’re admitted past the waiting room there’s something oddly comforting about the whole experience. You’re taken care of they give you warm blankets bring you meals give you medicine and hook you up to an IV so you don’t have to worry about anything. You even get a call button for the nurse if you need anything. The staff are usually kind check on you regularly and genuinely seem to care how youre feeling. It’s like being in a weird medical version of a hotel a bit of pampering mixed with recovery. For context I live in the U.S. so I know this experience might not be universal. But still assuming you’re not dealing with something traumatic it can be kind of… nice? Please remember what subreddit you are in this is unpopular opinion. We want civil and unpopular takes and discussion. Any uncivil and ToS violating comments will be removed and subject to a ban. Have a nice day! *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* I like the feeling of knowing that I am in the safest place possible for me at that moment that if whatever is wrong with me is bad or if anything goes wrong that Im here already and have professionals who can help. So in that regard I get what you mean it helps relieve some of the fear. But in literally no other way at all do I like being in a hospital. nothing beats being at home Your hospital must have better food than mine I think it highly depends on the hospital but I had a great experience at a hospital before after I had major surgery. I can see if your family doesnt care about you and professionals do you can develop Munchausens As someone about to have a scheduled Csection in a week I can concur I am VERY excited to have about 3 days where I’m waited on hand and foot 😅😅 it’s going to be a painful recovery this is my second so I know how it feels not fun the first couple days lol but as a toddlermom/soon to be newbornmom I am really looking forward to it 😂 I did get better a lot faster in hospital because I wasn’t stressing about cleaning cooking having to look after the pets and so on. But I never got any sleep was woken up at 2am for blood pressure and then 6am for bloods and blood pressure. Everyone came in at 8am loudly. Breakfast was 9am. No one really left you alone all day. The worst was the other patients who think speaker phone calls is cool when it’s not. Didn’t bring headphones for their iPads and I swear 90% of people snore. The food was horrible I ended up getting take aways delivered a lot. Uk Yeah Im SAHM with a toddler and hyper active dog... Sometimes Im thinking that trip to the hospital would be vacation like to me. I wouldnt have to constantly take care of anyone 🤣🤣 What? Every second in the hospital Id be worried about how much thats going to break the bank. This is unpopular. And you’re in the US? Take my upvote not gonna lie i had outpatient surgery recently &amp they put this massage machine on my leg to prevent blood clots it was nice &amp very relaxing. You know what feels nicer? Being home in a familiar place wrapped up in your own blankets eating your own food and not stressing about potential illness and injuries. Yes it’s the care” bit of healthcare” that you are describing. I had dengue fever as a kid and enjoyed it lol. I could choose what food I wanted to eat my parents got me Combos pretzels and Archie comics and I watched tv all day long. The best sleep I’ve gotten is when I’ve been hospitalized for recurring meningitis. And the food is good too. Every time Ive been in hospital overnight Ive been really ill. But it is nice to rest read books get food and drink brought to you. Which is just all the best bits of being ill. I agree. I have found my minor hospitalizations to be somewhat enjoyable. 6/10. I spent weeks on end in hospitals for various things and I oddly agree with OP on this one it feels liminal and strange yet comforting at the same time. I used to take very niche style photos of my hospital stays to try and capture that feeling. That’s how I feel haha I ended up having a private room when I was in for my diabetes. It was like a really weird spa. I got way more healthy than before because I would walk for an hour. The staff was great and the food was pretty good all things considered. I even got to have my dog visit for 6 hours a day Not for me. The staff are nice until you get admitted and then most of them do the bare minimum. It might be different for physical conditions but there’s a reason I won’t go back to the hospital unless a situation is life or death. I’ve delayed seeking medical care because of my experiences in the hospital so… Ya.....no.... I was in the hospital for 6 fractured ribs and a torn spleen... I fought to be let out on day 2 and they said only when I could walk freely and pass the breathing test...I got out on day 3 lol Today marks 2 weeks post surgery in hospital and it fuckin sucks. Yes I’ve had some incredible nurses my doctor is truly amazing and in the end could be weeks still I’ll be better off. But generally this place is miserable overall. In ever want to be back in hospital ever again. Thank god I’m in Canada and won’t be getting a bill for all of this. Yeah when I had appendicitis and an appendectomy it was sort of fun. I got dilauded in an IV and was so high off that and all the nurses were super hot and they took complete care of me lol I still look back on a d miss my 7 day stay in hospital. I had life saving surgery and after that it was so relaxing. It was like being on holiday. Even before the surgery I was unaware how much danger I was in and I was just vibing on the painkillers. It was great having just a routine and legit no responsibilities. I just napped and read books all the time. Best sleep of the last decade was the week I was in the hospital in 22. Its weird but I miss it. Agreed. When I was in the hospital I felt so safe and taken care of. The nurses checking up on you constantly the food being delivered the comfy bed etc I do agree but you could stay at the ritz Carlton and get all of your meals room service with a butler for less than 1 nights hospital stay 😂😂 No IV tho.. hospitals win on that one. Happy juice It’s taking a break guilt free. I understand You can have my upvote. I have PTSD from hospitals so I definitely disagree with you on this one. Agreed. The warm blankets? Omg i love them but i am scared of the possibility of being told something serious is wrong even though they can help lol Have you ever been in a hospital? I work in one and even though we try to do our best it’s demoralizing sometimes. I had my first surgery around 4 years old and six more over the next 5 decades. Additionally spent a night for observation when I was 12 enjoyed the final episode of MASH all by myself. I completely and thoroughly enjoy a hospital stay. My various surgeries were cut it out and throw it away situations so not super stressful. It was always interesting to see what there is to see. Even enjoy the followup care getting to use the new machines and technology I have to tell the ultrasound techs to go ahead and turn that screen this way a little bit. I am the only person in my friend group like this. They all know if they have to visit an emergency room or other medical procedure Im there for them. Except when the hospitals themselves are traumatic and just looking at a needle gives you a panic attack. And yes I am being 100% serious here. Not if you have medical related PTSD it doesn’t. Sounds like you have a lot on your shoulders in your normal life that makes an hoslital sounds awesome I get stressed at hospitals because of all the horror stories of medical staff royally fucking something up to the point where the patient has a serious adverse outcome including dying. Ive always been very nice when I go to the ER but I watch them like a hawk. Post 22 Politics Mega Thread Please post all topics about politics here Please remember what subreddit you are in this is unpopular opinion. We want civil and unpopular takes and discussion. Any uncivil and ToS violating comments will be removed and subject to a ban. Have a nice day! *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Politics being a topic that people refuse to talk about or is considered taboo/lame to bring up is a way to stop people from becoming educated on social issues. Prediction Trump is only going to carry out mass deportation in blue states. That way his red state fans can enjoy the spectacle from a distance and not suffer the adverse affects of worker shortages. Blue states will put up a certain amount of resistance giving Trump a rationale to deploy the military. Then hell use the military to monitor the 2026 election. So yeah were pretty screwed. Quinten Trembly 2069!!!! Can you do one for food posts too? Unpopular opinion I think the twoparty system should be trustbusted The US Constitution isnt a good foundation for governance in the 21st century. I have some wealthy white liberal friends. When they talk about immigration and say all those people who voted for trump to root out illegal immigrants don’t realize there won’t be people to clean their houses pick their fruit and wash their dishes”. I saw this opinion in an instagram reel with 200k+ likes. Say what you want about me but I find it to be disgustingly racist to imply that people of a specific ethnicity performing those jobs are likely illegal immigrants and to imply anyone seeking asylum illegally in our country default is essentially performing cheap labor in undesirable jobs. I find that extremely racist. Not to mention if you are paying these people illegally you are performing an immoral act especially if you are paying below minimum wage or even operating yourself as an employer. Are you paying into their unemployment insurance? Are you providing retirement? Or are you hiring cheap labor illegally insulting people of a specific ethnicity to their face by implying they only perform undesirable labor paying them poorly acting superior to your neighbors who may indeed need work and will do so for minimum wage and then when ICE comes for your employees you may resist or post on social media but ultimately you failed in your duty to actually provide help to these people you seem hell bent on pretending you support. Rant over. I just saw a New York Times headline Trump’s Crackdown on L.A. Protests Contrasts With His Jan. 6 Response Um the Jan 6th riot lasted 4 hours this has gone on for days. And Trump downplaying the actions of the Jan 6th rioters was really wrong. Just like Dems downplaying the actions of the George Floyd rioters mostly peaceful protests and Mayor Durkan of Seattle calling it like the Summer of Love and now this riot. Being an apologist for violence/rioting when the perps are on their side is a problem for both parties. I a US citizen should be able to track how my votes were counted. I voted for the first time in this last election and now Im hearing from the news that votes could have been altered but I have no way to verify it? I called the voter protection line went to my states voter registration site and have been told its to protect voter secrecy. Meanwhile my banking and everything else can easily authenticate my identity with mfa and my politics are on social media. This would have cleared up ten years worth of misgivings about election fraud if the people could see their own votes. Sorry to use this to vent but Im frustrated that our political machine is a dinosaur with no accountability checks. No. Not all Trump supporters are evil fascists and Nazis. I know what a bold idea Post 23 Hot gas station food is better than fast food Author GrailQuestPopsPost Text Roller hot dogs pizza slices packaged nachos with a hot cheese cup breakfast croissants taquitos… The list goes on and on! Gas station food is better than fast food and the deals are usually a lot cheaper or come with loyalty perks. Plus you can pick up other stuff while you’re there. The only thing missing is a drive thru. Please remember what subreddit you are in this is unpopular opinion. We want civil and unpopular takes and discussion. Any uncivil and ToS violating comments will be removed and subject to a ban. Have a nice day! *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* This depends. Ill take chick Fila over Circle K any day. Ill take sheets over McDonalds any day too. Yall sleeping on those pizza slices that sit in the warmer all day. Im a nurse and sometimes thats all thats open at 3am. Theyre somehow always perfectly greasy and the crust gets this amazing crunch that Dominos could never match. Sheetz Especially the nonchain gas stations. There is a place by me that has all homemade lasagna stuffed peppers breakfast sandwiches and a whole fryer menu. Some of the best chicken wings in the area. Always has a different soup and some sort of hot lunch special. Plus a full deli with MTO sandwiches cold salads etc. Kwick trip is better than most fast food I like those astronaut burgers you just microwave for 45 seconds. Bucee’s BBQ brisket sandwiches? Absolutely! If you mean Wawa then yes Two gas stations in my town are rivaling for best fried chicken in town and no joke their 3pc and jojos combos for $6 are some of the best food in town. They both put a stronghold on the fried chicken market and any other spot that’s tried to open up has shut down within a year. I was at 711 the other day to buy a pack of cigarettes and completely on a lark I decided to buy a slice of the pepperoni pizza. No joke it was better than any Id had from Dominos or Pizza Hut. Not amazingly better but definitely better. I used to love Pizza Hut as a child in the early 2000s but theyve gone so far fucking downhill in quality that 711s bullshit is better. Bucee’s and Sheetz yes please A good gas station burrito is probably one of my favorite foods honestly. Especially if you can taste the sense of danger when you get one in the hood. The universe of fast food and the universe of gas station food are both huge and very widely by region/country. But I concede that a large modern clean hightraffic gas station often has better options than say McDonalds. For Eastern USA something like Wawa... 711 hot dogs ftw We have Sheetz with drivethroughs and the food is…what you eat. Mannn this post has me craving a chili cheese dog from 711. I could live on gas station food. Gas station food is better than fast food at giving you diarrhea Not around here. QuikTrip which dominates the midwest has ... ok food. But its so expensive. A breakfast Croissant is nearly $6. For that price I can go across the street to McDs get two breakfast sandwiches a hashbrown and a drink. They also gouge at the pump so I avoid them at all costs. Sometimes you just want Krispy Krunchy Chicken. Couldnt agree more You can find world class bbq in the most random gas stations in the south. Take your upvote and enjoy your disgusting gas station food. 7eleven pizza is awesome if you go to the right one. also wawa exists This is a pretty terrible take unless youre talking about Louisiana gas station food That is also fast food. I’m guessing you’re not in the Midwest Im scared of the incubator for bacteria possibilities Mavericks in Colorado is peak food. Made fresh daily If by Gas Station Food you mean the gas stations that actually have a togo restaurant then sure sometimes. If you mean the premade crap that sits under a warmer for hours then absolutely not plus imagine paying way too much on top of it all. Well it’s not BETTER but it is the new cheap food” now that fast food costs a premium price. Except Chipotle. Still less than $10 for a huge burrito. Nothing beats an AMPM burger left under the heat lamp for four hours. Yeah its cheaper for a reason. Can we agree that both are generally trash? Where I live a pizza at Speedway is more expensive than a Little Caesars Hot &amp Ready Im not sure about this but I will put a NYC Bodega BEC or Turkey Club up against almost anything of equivalent value or cost. I’m going to disagree with this opinion. I will say alot of large gas chains have healthier selections compared to fast food most is equal to vending machine food. The best gas station food is better than the best fast food but the worst gas station food is *much* worse than the worst fast food. The thing is gas station food is inconsistent. You go to any McDonalds and you pretty much know what youre getting into. It wont be good but it will be consistent from location to location. Some gas stations have killer food but a lot dont. You really have to know which gas station is which. Otherwise its a total crap shoot. Wawa makes amazing food. Way better than Sheetz thats for sure. I mean which gas station because circle K is straight dog water. But QT Maverick and the GOAT Bucees yeah for sure they are great and even underrated in my opinion. It really depends on the gas station. There’s a wide range of I do love me a hot dog or cheddar jalapeno sausage from quick trip every now and then. As someone why grew up in the North East hell no As someone who lives in The Midwest most definitely. Idk Stewart’s is pretty fucking awful. Yeah our ~~gas station~~ servo hot food is typically a handful of sausage rolls and meat pies that have been sitting in there for a couple hours. Im going to go out on a limb and say a seafood basket and hot chips from old mate down the road is going to land a little better. Hold on there Satan not today. I went into a 711 this morning to grab some iced coffee. I had to hold my breath because the smell of the fried food from the machines in there is intolerable I’m not a snob either I eat fast food all the time. I strongly disagree. 🤢🤮 Truly unpopular and I hate this opinion. Take my upvote Being from the deep south this is not an unpopular opinion or some well kept secret. Gas station fried chicken is the fucking truth. Gas station fried chicken in New Orleans If you know This needs better definitions. Wawa Sheetz Bucees Flying J absolutely. Smaller neighborhood joints—its getting debatable. My Speedway has some gross ass food. That said I sometimes roll like Derek Bieri and get some beef jerky and a hot cup of cheese. #hattip Wawa for the win!!! Hard agree a random rural gas station in Mississippi is magnitudes better than McDonald’s. We have a local chain in Savannah called Parkers. They have fried pork chops that are just perfection. Convenience stores are the new fast food. This is dumb because it obviously depends on the gas station vs fast food place. Example show me a gas station that has better breakfast than ChickfilA or bojaangles Ampm used to be the SHIT where I was at. Now its hard to find one like that. Fast food is extremely dependant on the location being good or not Unless this is a bucees hard disagree Spinx in South Carolina changed my whole view of gas station cuisine Everytime I get gas station food I regret it. Depends on the fast food and gas station. 7/11 over Macdonalds But 7/11 over Wendy’s? And so on. Gas station food quality is oddly regional. I have a dumpy gas station near me that sells fried chicken made by an old lady. **IT IS THE BEST** Genuinely unpopular QT is crushing it when it comes to hot food. And the food that you can order there is pretty tremendous also Anyone remember old BP Wild Bean Cafe? Now that was a good breakfast croissant! I road trip quite a bit so whatever part of the country Im at I could be at a Wawa Bucees Sheetz QuikTrip Racetrac any of the larger footprint gas stations to fill up on gas and eat something quick afterwards. Its not common for me to stop somewhere for fast food unless Im taking a longer break and need to get out of the car for a bit. I usually save the sit down full service restaurant for dinner on road trips. While Im at home I avoid gas station and fast food restaurants for the most part. I see yall don’t have a ton of Casey’s in your town Nah but its about on par. In most cities in the south/southwest the best fried chicken is sold at a random gas station I had a breakfast sandwich once from a gas station restaurant. The wrapper stuck to it and it sat in my stomach like a brick. Live in denver now but from New Orleans. Best shrimp po boy I ever had was from a gas station in NOLA at like 3 am. I was hammered but fuck it was good. In Denver? Havent had the same luck Depends on the gas station Americans pallets are fucking cooked There used to be a Latino couple that made fresh breakfast burritos at a gas station on the way to the mountain where I live. Kicked fast food’s ass. Both are disgusting shit Your standards are trash or slightly better trash Post 24 Being short makes dating harder not impossible Statistically if you date enough women you will find someone you enjoy spending time with and vice versa which develops into a relationship. It can be 10 women or 5000. It’s luck and numbers Please remember what subreddit you are in this is unpopular opinion. We want civil and unpopular takes and discussion. Any uncivil and ToS violating comments will be removed and subject to a ban. Have a nice day! *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* I mean doesn’t feel like an unpopular opinion at all. Obviously it’s not impossible as short people are in relationships everywhere? The problem is people look on the statistics and come to the conclusion that being short = harder dating. The real reason why most short people struggle with dating is their attitude. Theyll either try to overcompensate for their height resulting in cringe/insufferable personality traits or become miserable pessimistic assholes as a result of not being able to accept their body. There are specific cases where the real reason is in fact the height but trust me its only a small percentage of the cases girls dont care as much about it as social media lead you to believe. So does being bald out of shape or just plain ugly. We don’t all get a winning hand but you play the best game you can. Im 57 Ive dated duded who are 53 5.6 and my height. Typically I am with guys who are bigger than me. But theres nothing wrong with a short dude. Post 25 Race related issues Mega Thread Please post all topics about race related issues here Please remember what subreddit you are in this is unpopular opinion. We want civil and unpopular takes and discussion. Any uncivil and ToS violating comments will be removed and subject to a ban. Have a nice day! *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Waving the Mexican flag in the USA while arguing that you should get to stay in the USA undocumented is really stupid. [deleted] Well I just want to quote Trevor Noahs little brother. Theres white chocolate milk chocolate and dark chocolate but its all Nestle. If your response to protests against fascism is they shouldnt do it that way youre ultimately supporting the fascists. As the protests in LA and now SF are kicking off Im seeing more and more comments saying wow they shouldnt wave another countries flag theyre just gonna give ammo to the fascists. If you feel compelled to do this take a deep breath and dont. ICE with the support of local law enforcement all over the country is literally kidnapping people from schools courtrooms grocery stores and home depot and taking them to what are effectively black site locations throughout the country. This is already happening they dont need the ammo youre talking about. Furthermore when you are not supportive of protest movements because they dont fit nicely into your vision of what protests should be you are falling into the trap that the far right wants you to fall in. Fascism must be resisted in as many different mediums as possible. Either support those putting themselves on the line or say nothing. Lastly if you thought that defund was bad youre really not gonna like what the morally correct response is for virtually every single police force in this country right now. Post 26 Hotels shouldn’t ever put throws and cushions on the beds Hotels should just get rid of them! Especially don’t let the cushions touch the pillows. They may look nice but they’re filthy and rarely washed and shouldn’t touch the clean bedding. I’d much prefer a bed with clean sheets on it and nothing else. Please remember what subreddit you are in this is unpopular opinion. We want civil and unpopular takes and discussion. Any uncivil and ToS violating comments will be removed and subject to a ban. Have a nice day! *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Clean bedding. Mmmhmm. The floors should always be solid too no carpets! Youve never met someone who likes to cuddle pillows have you? Sounds like a you problem I dont even want sheets. I bring my own. I bring water shoes for the shower too and my own toilet paper. I dont want to touch anything in a hotel room. I also bring lysol and often my own pillow as well. Post 27 The Ballon D’or Should Go To One Of Salah Mendes Vitinha Or Hakimi 1 Salah Salah has the most goals and assists in the same premier league season the highest quality league in the world. That should put right in the mix without a doubt. If anyone watched Winter Salah this season and doesn’t think he should be right up there confuses me. He didn’t win in Europe but football is a team sport Ballon D’or is a personal achievement. The way people have treated his chances since Liverpool were knocked out shocks me. He is without a doubt the best player in the world right now in my opinion. 2 Hakimi and Mendes in my opinion they were far more important to the treble for PSG than any attacker. Amazing to watch every single game both attacking and defending. I’m sick of the antidefending sentiment at these award ceremonies and am hoping they will build on the success that was Rodri winning to honour players who genuinely deserve it not the shiniest new winger Vinicius Doue Yamal not to discredit these players though Mendes’ win last night probably doesn’t count for anything but if you think it does 4 trophies including an international may count for something not that it particularly makes a difference to me. 3 Vitinha Jesus Christ this guys good. Anyone who watched PSG at all this season can see that. If he’s not in with a shout I’m shocked. He has vision I’ve not seen since 2018/19 Modric and the work rate is amazing. Truly an amazing player. Praying he comes to the prem regardless of the team. If he’s not right up there in the top 5 I don’t know what to say. I am sick of the talk of Yamal and Dembele. I truly believe they don’t come near the standards of those 4 players. Cheers for reading. Please remember what subreddit you are in this is unpopular opinion. We want civil and unpopular takes and discussion. Any uncivil and ToS violating comments will be removed and subject to a ban. Have a nice day! *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Have you seen any salah matches since March? Hes been ghosting a lot of them and leaving dembele out of your contenders is pretty stupid It should be Vitinha or mendes I dont know at all what youre saying. But yes. The Ballon D’Or is a ridiculous award that congratulates marketability instead of performance or achievements see 2010 2013 and 2018 as examples. Giving it any sort of importance arguing about who deserves it or claiming any sort of bragging rights about it is useless. Ronaldo tho Raphinha is the only right answer bruv. Most goal and most assists in UCL. Laliga player of the season. No Dembele or Raphinha? On what grounds? If we follow your argument for salah Then it should got to one of dembele or raphinha This is soo stupid Post 28 LGBTQ+ Mega Thread Please post all topics about LGBTQ+ here Please remember what subreddit you are in this is unpopular opinion. We want civil and unpopular takes and discussion. Any uncivil and ToS violating comments will be removed and subject to a ban. Have a nice day! *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* ~~Weekly~~ **Whenever the Threads Refresh** Reminder Claiming otherwise makes one no better than a flat earther or antivaxxer. Happy pride! Also support trans people especially right now Why are asexuals grouped within the LGBT community? That doesnt make sense its like saying that bald is a type of haircut someone who can clarify that Trans women are women and trans men are men. As a lesbian I think that many not all bi women devalue wlw relationships. The majority of bi women Ive met predominantly date men. These are things Ive heard from bi women * I havent dated women because its too complicated to figure out wlw flirting. * I havent dated women because there are fewer queer women in the dating scene than straight men. * I want to date women because I think women are less likely to hurt me. * I want to date women but Im really much more attracted to men. * I date women casually but ultimately I want to be with a man because a my family accepts me better with a man and/or b I want to have biological children with my partner. * Judging men by a much harsher standard than women. This is devaluing because the person is much more emotionally invested with men than with women. * Referring to a relationship between a cis straight man and a cis bi woman as a queer relationship. And referring to that man as queer because of that relationship. I have also met bi women who highly value wlw relationships actively pursue and engage in wlw relationships and take those relationships seriously. But its frustrating to hear these things from my bi female friends. Yeah wlw dating can be difficult in various ways. Ive been hurt in lots of ways by women and it wasnt any less bad because it wasnt a man. Those are realities of my life that I cant change. Its hard to bring this up with these friends because these conversations happen when theyre looking to me for reassurance and inclusion. I want bi women to be 100% welcome and included in the queer community but I also want bi women to be aware of the ways in which they may view wlw relationships as different than straight relationships. I want bi women to be more curious about other queer experiences and to learn how those experiences are different from their own. It should be easier to get gender affirming surgeries [deleted] Anything other than straight gay bisexual or pansexual is dumb. You either like dudes chicks or both or youre open to whatever. Anything else is just way too much info about your sexual preferences. Nice try Reddit admins. [deleted] Unpopular opinion sexuality should be classified based on genital preference for simplicity. That way we wouldnt have sensitive straight guys calling themselves super straight because they dont want to date a preop trans woman which is a valid preference. Im bisexual so doesnt matter for me but I think it would clear up some confusion. Like for example my friend doesnt know how to identify his sexuality because he likes other trans men and women but not cis men. I think it would be easier if he could just say he likes vagina and call it a day. Idk this might be stupid. Post 29 Basic IT capability Everyone will have computer skills on their CV but as an IT Support Tech this is possibly the biggest lie on most peoples CV. Im sat here talking to a person whos much higher up than me in the organisation whos unable to search their apps in windows doesnt know what a task bar is cant find their start menu doesnt know what control panel is &amp acting like its my fault that they dont know the basics. Im of the opinion that an IT competency test should be a apart of the onboarding process for a job &amp at the bare minimum failing a competency test should extend a probation period. Using a computer effectively is how work gets done in 2025 &amp you cannot work effectively without these skills. Ive noticed that both older &amp younger staff are falling into the same knowledge bracket with IT. I put it as a similar example as applying for a job as a driver without a driving license. Please remember what subreddit you are in this is unpopular opinion. We want civil and unpopular takes and discussion. Any uncivil and ToS violating comments will be removed and subject to a ban. Have a nice day! *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* The amount of people that fall appart when you tell them where a file is but the file was one folder deeper than the path you gave them The file is doc.txt its here c/path I dont see it You go to c/path and there is a folder named DOC LOCATION which had the file doc.txt inside _ They cannot follow any hierarchy folder structure no matter how logic it is laid out Most people cannot navigate a PC. I’d say this is a fact. On one hand you have the boomers who never learned. On the other hand you have the tablet generation who cant do anything unless its a touch screen app. With AI coming in hot I think intimate IT knowledge is going to get phased out of the general populace. What is mystifying to me is how young people have the same poor skills now like the boomer generation. If its not ready served in an app they are lost. What is going on? I do everything admin. Networking server security ad exchange. Everything. Last year I helped the same person who makes double what I make unmute her computer. 3 times. I agree. This would increase my employability sooo much. Dude have you seen what people claim is competency in excel? Like no pivot point no formatting not even basic formulas. They can type in the box and may even know ctrl+C Ctrl+V if youre lucky. Ngl I lied about my abilities in excel but I could enter formulas but I googled that shit and started practicing when I got the job. I remember when in uni Some computer science professors can barely navigate windows while they taught us the C programming language. If Advanced level programming skills and knowledge does not guarantee windows proficiency then I dont know anymore. In fact troubleshooting with windows has more to do with googling and watching YouTube videos and not so much with computer skills. List specific technologies AWS NetOPS A+ CCNA etc This isnt an opinion Whats the opposing opinion? That everyone is actually tech literate?... One thing Ill always be grateful to my dad for is that he had a computer in our house from a young age and said Computers will be at every job you need to have these skills I have coworkers that are amazed because I have what I consider to be basic computer skills. Theyre the reason you have a job buddy its not just setting up new keyboards and monitors for people People who grew up with computers before high speed internet are better at using them because we were so bored with our computers not being able to do anything that we explored the entire device looking for stuff to do and settings to change. Also in the past computers running anything prior to Windows XP broke down often operating systems got corrupted or you messed things up by changing certain settings so you had to reinstall the entire operating system and this could happen multiple times in a year. We learned by doing. and yet.... he got hired and in a much much higher paying position than you. he gets things done. do you? I know some ultra techies who cant use Windows but can recompile their Linux kernel deploy a self hosted website and setup a site to site vpn. Depends really on what specifically you mean by basic capacity. I personally dont think its fair to assume Windows competency is a necessity. If you said they cant work out how to add someone to contacts on their phone then maybe yer thats awkward but would like to see a world where Windows is a more niche product. Most IT issues like this can be solved with 5 minutes of help from someone like yourself. If there is a perfect candidate to fill high level roles in an organization they are certainly not going to derail that to avoid some minor inconveniences to the IT team whose job is to help with IT issues. Or maybe these very basic skills should be taught in schools and have a quick review of the first day of training. Teach people instead of punishing them for not knowing something. Computer skills who cares? Post 30 if your horror movie is just a bunch of jumpscares then its not a horror movie when i go to the cinema it is garenteed that at least there will be 1 horror movie but the thing is how many of them will be genuine horror films and not just a bunch of jumpscares or random gore scenes without any reason? yes i know you may get scared by a screamer but it is just a generic prompt to justify the movie’s genre if you take a generic horror movie and remove all jumpscare scenes then you are left with a movie that although it has a coherent plot it doesn’t build a tense/disturbing atmosphere that keeps you in the seat there are so many films that even though they are not the best film on the planet they can build a coherent and scary plot without the need of these resources and they dont even need an astronomical budget to get this done please be more original and actually put effort into your movies Please remember what subreddit you are in this is unpopular opinion. We want civil and unpopular takes and discussion. Any uncivil and ToS violating comments will be removed and subject to a ban. Have a nice day! *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* I like Jay from Red Letter Medias take on this best if you rely on jump scares you havent scared me youve just startled me. Jump scare movies are made by lazy writers and theyre a wast of time. Jump scares make horror feel cheap. Psychological horror is much better. What kind of horror movies are you watching that are just an hour full of random jumpscares? For me jump scares and body horror are distinctly what separate horror movies from thrillers. I love thrillers I don’t care for horror movies. Suspense and scary concepts are where it’s at being shocked into fear is not it for me. I don’t think shock factor makes a bad horror movie I think it’s a defining feature of what makes a horror movie and is why I don’t care for them. My favorite example of excellent horror with very little jump scares is Silence of the Lambs. This is a near perfect horror movie. This movie commits 100% to writing mood character development music lighting and acting. Jump scares were not necessary. Just thinking about that movie fills me with a sense of dread but in a good way. Horror films scare the shit out of me because of the scary music and constant jumpacres. I personally much prefer psychological thrillers as theyre a slow burn rather than constant jumpacres. The old no true Scotsman you hate to see it. Wrong. Horror movies that are just a bunch of jumpscares are bad horror movies but theyre still horror movies. I think its antiintellectual and antiart to say that because something is bad it no longer should be considered as an example of what it is. Just let movies be bad and still be valid artistic expression. You personally not liking it doesnt change what it is. A real horror movie is a form of art. You need to set up the lighting music story and actor performances just right. But the perfect jump scare at the right moment can still make you shit bricks. I still remember Evil Dead 1981. That movie shook my mental health when I was 7 years old. After that all the Japanese horror—like The Ring The Grudge and others—just made me laugh. No bro hiding the scene with camera tricks then a loud ass noise is epic Word to all the muthas I love jump scares. It’s a violation of my body autonomy in the form of a movie a very basal reaction and emotion. The best horror movies are the ones that set you up for your imagination to provide the horror. It is. It’s just a shitty one. You don’t get to define what genre things are If you are scared of the movie. Then I personally consider it a good horror movie. I mean like if a horror movie is super scary because of jump scares. Then I guess its still good. Hating on jump scares is just a tired old opinion that people trot out to sound smart This is why Im very selective about what new movies I watch. Post 31 Meta Mega Thread Please post all meta topics here. A meta topic is one that discusses the subreddit itself including how it is moderated its rules its megathreads and so on. Please remember what subreddit you are in this is unpopular opinion. We want civil and unpopular takes and discussion. Any uncivil and ToS violating comments will be removed and subject to a ban. Have a nice day! *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* What are we even allowed to post now lmao Is Reddits AI Bot Insane or what? I got a ban earlier for saying the most nonissue thing in the world. Context There was a literal picture of someone doing a crime . No ambiguity it was a crime. I said ... what the title of this video is And got banned. Seriously what the fuck Reddit... I was told I was threatening violence? Really Reddit Really? Post 32 Going CASHLESS makes people vulnerable There was a power outage in Spain for like 10 hours and people couldn’t buy groceries with their debit / credit cards or use the ATMs to withdraw some cash. People were literally freaking out and couldn’t understand what was going on. The older generation was much better prepared for this scenario. From my understanding people who have lived through dictatorship government overreach police states etc tend to have more cash and precious metals in hand just in case shit hits the fan. It takes only one bad government to arrive and all the information you willingly gave your bank of every transaction you made could be use against you your family and friends. Europe is on the brick of war the US is a mess and the rest of the world is a boiling pot. I truly think we need to prepare our society for the hard times that are most likely to come. What are your thoughts? Please remember what subreddit you are in this is unpopular opinion. We want civil and unpopular takes and discussion. Any uncivil and ToS violating comments will be removed and subject to a ban. Have a nice day! *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* The more entrenched technology gets the harder it is for those who have never known anything else to respond or react. I mean if the grocery stores didnt have power were they open at all? Id imagine not if they have no power. I have a wallet full of cash $2000 in my house and the worry is that someone could steal it or my house could burn down with the money in it. So not the safest either. I can go 10 hours without needing cash. Uhh doesn’t using a cash register require electricity. Thus rendering your whole argument mute? Registers if they’re modern need electricity to open If you are worried about facism or authoritarianism in any capacity then thinking a cashless society is good is the most contradicting idea. Ignoring actual tools of abuse and manipulation in the name of convenience is exactly how these powers come to be. Don’t be sheep and diversify your assets as much as possible. Places of business can accept credit/debit cards without power. Credit/debit cards were around before electric registers and card readers. I worked as a waiter and when the power would go out we had a device that would use in to create a stamp of the card number It also created a pointless middle man that has increased costs 3%. It only takes one bad government to change the currency or jack up inflation and render all of your cash useless. If were talking about being fucked over by bad governments then theres nothing preventing a bad government from fucking you over. The power outage issue is definitely a real thing and any attempt to go cashless is going to have to account for such things. I havent used physical cash in like a decade except for a deposit for a summer vacation home in 2023. I still have that in my wallet for emergencies like op describes. yes absolutely it also hurts people getting money mostly through cash like small market business or people in the trades. homemess people too I personally am getting to the point of preferring cash but not because I’m turning into a prepper. Just because I’m sick of interest payments during times I’m unable to fully pay off my card for any reason. Trying to start using cash more for the little things so that it doesn’t keep adding up on top of using my card for bigger things. But believe me preppers” have been around all the while and often drive themselves into madness poverty and isolation. Don’t be a prepper. Our ancestors survived through community and family two things most post1900 preppers give challengingly little thought to. I think you’re right. Weird that those who agree with your thinking are called conspiracy theorists Places around here won’t even take cash anymore if systems are down because they can’t do the math to give change back. Sad times. Ah yes my wad of cash will save me from the entire government turning evil I hate cashless !!! Its not convenient at all. This is why Im a hoarder trading for goods is the future! Making people powerless without a currency that requires constant surveillance to work is the whole point. Let supporters of a cashless deny it all they want but that is their true goal. I own a business and I refuse to go cashless. I dont care how infrequently people use cash or how hard the banks work to make it as inconvenient as possible for small businesses like mine to deal in cash. Not only is it classist to refuse cash in my opinion I also find it extremely alarming in general. Few things make me feel more conspiratorial than this topic. Ive felt the pressure as a small business owner to go cashless its real. Always have cash on hand. Even if you can only afford to store away 20 or 50 bucks for an emergency do that. I try to keep enough cash stored for 4 tanks of gas and 5 days of food and water for two adults and my dog. Government breakdown natural disasters tech meltdown a worse pandemic civil unrest many catastrophes both predictable and not can cause banks to shut down. Yeah. Never put all your eggs in one basket just in general. If you can diversify always do. Tbh Im pretty sure the reason the government/people in power want people to go cashless is because it makes us vulnerable.... Cash is far more vulnerable. I have some older family members who store silver and cash in their house. Their house was broken into while they were gone now that cash and silver is gone forever. That’s a far more tangible and immediate vulnerability than your power outage scenario fixable with a generator or satellite internet or your extreme government examples at which point cash is the least of your concerns I agree I was on empty at a gas station and they could only accept cash because the Machine” was down .. I tore my car apart to find 15 dollars… Bill C 2 in Canada will limit cash purchases . Just the beginning. precious metals are worthless in such a situation. And having physical cash only works until said government goes Your cash is worthless paper and only people holding these new Government Bucks have any real money. A power outage is a good argument for having cash on hand. Bank shenanigans is a good argument for having cash on hand. The government going rogue is a good argument for strong local community and community gardens. In a situation like that resources matter not things we assign imaginary value to and call money. Oh no 10 hours without being able to go to the grocery store however will I possibly live Oh wait I can just go to the fridge Also most local grocery stores if theres a power outage will just shut down anyways regardless of whether or not they accept cash as they dont exactly want people digging through the freezers letting essentially the cold air out and potentially spoiling hundreds of thousands of dollars of product Im sure the truck drivers in Canada have more cash now after the government froze their accounts. No matter what side of an issue youre on having your money taken from you with a few clicks by the gov is scary as hell. I remember people talking about the socalled cashless society back in the 2000s. How people would be carrying cards. Cash is so yesterday!. Its as if people had so much faith in technology that they thought they didnt need such primitive things like cash and coins in your pocket. That all the data centers would just magically stay on forever! In the chaos of the digital age not nearly enough is talked about the structural foundations that this digitalbased society is founded upon. Data centers. Supply networks. And the usual infrastructure of course. Plumbing manufacturing irrigation electricity. These are either invisible to people or taken for granted. When in truth the digital age and all the computer systems and processes that power it are as fragile as a newborn. You can take info from cards without power but it takes a significant amount of trust on both ends. I agree. My partner and I had a flight back home to the UK on that day when Spain lost power. We always put money on our revolut card and use that for the entire holiday. We left our suitcases in this shop.. pre booked a taxi… and we had no cash or access to withdraw it. Thankfully the people of Spain were trusting and sent us their bank details and we transferred the money when we got home. We only had 2 euros spare for some water and that was it. Lesson learned always carry cash! While I agree cash should be accepted everywhere the idea that cash is inherently protected from government overreach is a pipe dream. Who do you think issues that money? Gold and silver have some benefits but trading with it requires knowhow and for the person you intend to trade with to accept it as well. And when society inherently doesnt function gold and silver are a lot less useful than people want to remember. Id say if you were in a truly truly society reducing collapse your best bet is to maintain a stock of food water and other supplies and have the skills to get and produce more. Those would be far more valuable than a gold coin. Yes Im prepared in a different way. If I needed to we have at least a couple months food at home and a water store. Im looking into freeze dried / MRE backups Being dependent is the goal of cashless. I wonder you noticed that this late. They were already testing how this works Por me in Ecuador we were experiencing 8 hours blackouts daily for 3 months because of s draught. in disasters looting is survival. I keep a few hundred dollars cash on me as a backup but I don’t use it often. I think it is why it is worth always having cash same with any alternative way of paying even Paypal and a couple of backup cards. The reality if there is a huge power outage is many shops couldnt function anyway their till systems are electronic. Small places may take cash but they may be able to work around things anyway my taking card via an app. Good point. You have zero privacy if you dont have cash. And yeah you are exposed to a sudden account block for suspicious activity like buying crypto or a new requirement to fill some additional documents Those things actually happened to me and some of my friends India has UPI. You need only your mobile and a UPI app. When you buy something from a shop its owner receives an audio notification from the machine about how much money has been deposited. I still carry emergency cash. Went to see some friends in Granada and they said everyone was out in the plaza people were at restaurants having dinners and drinking wine and enjoyed their evenings. After Helen hit last year my town which was mostly unharmed had no signal for a few days and companies wouldn’t accept debit/credit cards. This lasted for a few days before things got sorted out. Thankfully I had cash so for the most part I was fine. Physical cash isn’t terrible to have on hand. When the blackout happened I was surprised on the number of stores that still accepted my card. I actually had a good amount of cash with me but thats not the norm. For me that day wasnt really a potential apocalyptic event more like an annoying setback as I had a lot of things prepared for that week. I think I should have more cash on hand. It’s convenient to use cards but you have said the actual truth. totally agree not everything needs to be card oriented. Government advice is to have 10 days worth of supplies at home at all times. A 10 hour power outage is really nothing if you follow that advice. After a 10 day outage youll have other problems entirely. Ive certainly started keeping a cash stash on hand in the current political climate. I think both are needed for a healthy economy I cant imagine going around cashless but I aint keeping much more than maybe some 20s in my wallet. The rest will stay on my card. In case of mass outages or other disasters my government recommends to keep at least €75 in cash. So its not unpopular for them. More precious metals in hand? Did the grocery stores in Spain start weighing out slivers off of gold bars and taking that as payment for groceries? I highly doubt it. Thats why Im starting to stash some cash again. 23 times a week I walk to the ATM now its good exercise I get 50 EUR or more and put it away. Same with buying silver and gold if / when shit really hits the fan. Being rich with numbers on a screen wont do any good when the internet is down banks decide that you dont need that much cash right now and businesses cant process credit cards anyway. Well when the world ends cash will be useless banks long before the end Ive never trusted banks anyway. Unpopular because keeping cash on hand = less interest earned over time. It’s risk vs reward and older people can afford to be less risky in investments because they don’t have many years left anyway. If a government does what you’re describing your cash will be just as worthless as your credit card. Relax. The rich want that stuff to stay afloat just as much as the poor. They lose money when you cant use your credit card. If your local area falls apart because of losing power for a few hours you should consider moving. Or go live in the woods off the grid. 6/1. Can make you a non person if you live in a totalitarian state like USA or China. I’ll just take what I need and plead to the judge if I’m caught. That’s assuming some long drawn out issue of power or some other emergency. I usually go 50/50 between cash and cashless even though I slightly prefer cashless for the convenience always have cash on you for cases like this. I always keep a few hundred dollars in small bills US in my house for this reason. Ive heard people who have been through hurricanes where power was out not be able to buy needed items because they didnt have cash. Also anyone who does have cash probably has large bills so the store quickly wont be able to make change. Always a good idea to have some cash stashed away. A power outage is one thing. A major banking and internet outage is another. With the growing issue of cybersecurity I think the vulnerability of not using cash is growing every year. Reliance on technology whilst convenient makes us more and more fragile and vulnerable to a really major disruption and disaster. Gracias a Dios que vi esto me hiciste acordarme de todos los videos de españoles que pensaron que era el Apocalipsis porque se les fue la luz menos de un día. Lo del efectivo es importante eso si I was in Madrid during the blackout. Personally no one was more or less prepared. It was more just how they reacted In Australia we had some huge fires and some people got trapped in an area on the coast There was a petrol station there and a road leading out but people were unable to buy petrol because they had no cash and the atm network was down due to the fire. In the end the fire closed in further and the people had to be rescued by boat by the Australian navy. Im old..I always keep a few hundred in cash with me. Sat phones are cool for situations like this but you ever heard of satellite banking with crypto? https//blockstream.com/satellite/ One of these could support an entire shopping centers worth of transactions and customers dont need internet if they have a wallet that supports partially signed transactions. For a 10hr outage cash will be better keep some cash for any potential outage great idea . But If it gets that bad that your government collapses chances are even your cash will be useless. Your home currency becomes useless due to inflation and even if you have cash there is a good chance there wont be able to buy anything as the shelves will be empty. Duh. I dont think this is an unpopular opinion cash is obviously necessary Its amusing that people think a police state would target their completely mundane shopping like the secret police is going to hunt them down and execute them for buying the wrong canned beans. But this is the mental disconnect that comes with trying to oppose dictatorship from the standpoint of the ideology that drives over half of dictatorships military juntas etc. Brick of war! 🧱 Hugely. We need to have way more non monetized transactions. I’m tired of a pay per” reality. Needs to change. If you cant survive 10 hours for a power outage to be restored you cant survive in any of the tragedies you mention. Europe is not on the brink of war and the zombies are not coming to eat you. Its about control. Anything else are just excuses. Imagine living in a dictatorship like in China you do something bad in the eye of the party like protesting and your bank account is froze. Good luck surviving. Dude I wish we would to back to cash. I felt more responsible and it was easier to keep track of your daytoday finances. You can spend a lot of stupid money nowadays because all you see is that number on your phone. I use cash usually because its way easier for me to budget and not spend money badly. That and I dont like being followed. Using your card is like making a map of your habits. Thats why companies give deals if you use their apps. Theyre spying on you. I think this is a pretty popular opinion... then dont go cashless. problem solved. It’s a true opinion. It also makes us less free with less liberty. Companies always complain about the cost of credit cards. Insurance on cash plus training plus mistakes are way more expensive than credit cards. The media have had their way scaring you. Europe is not on the brink of a war Not really as currency doesnt have any value past the government backing it. In a lights out scenario the currency is also most likely worthless. If this is something you worry about buy gold Whats the argument for cashless anyway? *Checks notes.* No longer able to provide to those less privileged than you and gives the banks complete control to freeze your funding if you become an enemy of the state. Oh. Ten hours without shopping? Id just go home and eat what was in the fridge/cupboard and go again the next day. Hardly a catastrophe The food storage in my basement and my 9mm dont need electricity Thread is proving this guys opinion 100% if your entire county or country loses power and ur sitting there not thinking about how you can get supplies you are already cooked. I can go 10 hours without a grocery store” aren’t grocery stores closed” etc.. what if it’s 3 days are you still going to say yeah I’m good I don’t need more food. If shit really hits the fan people will begin looting and or selling goods guess what you can’t get shit with your cards. The idea of having physical money being an unpopular opinion is wild and scary. If theres a power outage can you even pay with cash since the registers and machines also use electricity? Can you even open the drawer? If the power is out then they dont need to be in the store... I haven’t carried cash in 20 years and have never had any issues. Cash is king I dont understand the European / urban mindset of only having enough food for a day or two. Bring back the raised credit cards. Europe is on the brink of war...? Too bad most business would close without power anyways Also oh no the Russians would know that I shop at Costco and have an Xbox live subscription lol Laughing from a country with Pix I live in Florida. Assets are far more valuable than cash here. I think some people are being pedantic here about the grocery experience and just 10 hours. And I know that 99% of the times a credit card is all you’ll ever need. But every year I come across one or two instances where cash is the only thing accepted or where cash gave me a discount. So I always carry a couple of $20 bills in my wallet and a couple of hundred in my car. 3 or 4 months ago Costco’s credit card system was down only accepted cash. I remember that being the most recent time. I cant think of a store near me that would track transactions with a notebook or something rather than just close. Cash has some benefits but I think it has just as many downsides as a card and its just as unstable economically. If it gets really bad cash and card are both worthless I agree. Your bank account could theoretically be wiped but cash is harder to invalidate. Of course if an event was bad enough to upset the whole economy neither would matter much in the end money has worth because the government tells us it does. There’s a hole in your logic. Soldiers knock on your door and demand money. If all of it is under your mattress that was a bad idea . Do people forgot that those beep beep sounds uses electricity? Agree that having the option to use cash needs to stay in place for a lot of reasons yet I am continually downvoted and told to get with the times grandpa when I comment it. Not only could the tech companies give your information to the govt for any reason the govt could then use it for whatever they want it also alienates people who can only use cash to pay for items. People who cant have a checking account who choose to budget &amp work with cash people that make a portion of their wage in cash like tipped workers and Im sure theres a lot more. If a business wants to be cashless thats fine as long as its not a necessity. Places food gas clothing medicine are sold should also take cash as these are things a person needs to live. Post 33 Popular Topics MegaHub Greetings you opinionated unpopular lot! This is your onestop shop for all of the ridiculously reposted topics on this sub. This hub and the linked threads below will be replaced every 7 days to keep things fresh. Please remember what subreddit you are in this is unpopular opinion. We want civil and unpopular takes and discussion. Any uncivil and ToS violating comments will be removed and subject to a ban. Have a nice day! *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Post 34 Soul Asylums album Let Your Dim Light Shine is better than their juggernaut Grave Dancers Union Unpopular opinion Let Your Dim Light Shine is a better album than Grave Dancers Union and I’ll die on this hill with a guitar in one hand and a Paul Westerberg quote in the other. While Grave Dancers Union brought Soul Asylum mainstream fame with Runaway Train” the raw introspective and often frustratingly real heart of the band beats louder in Let Your Dim Light Shine. This is where the band stopped trying to ride the wave of early ’90s altrock expectations and instead made something messier more personal and more enduring. First off the songwriting. Let Your Dim Light Shine is Dave Pirner at his lyrical best disillusioned selfaware awkward and searching. Tracks like Hopes Up” To My Own Devices” and Caged Rat” aren’t built for radio they’re built for people who don’t quite fit anywhere. The album’s undercurrent of existential dread and suburban confusion isn’t dressed up for mass consumption it’s left bare and nervy. Where Grave Dancers Union sometimes leans on production polish and anthemic hooks Dim Light leans on vulnerability humor and unpredictability. Then there’s the music itself. Let Your Dim Light Shine is more experimental and musically mature. It blends janglepop punk Americana and even a little country twang but never in a selfconscious way. It’s cohesive in its weirdness. Misery” the only real hit off the album is perhaps the most ironically overplayed antihit of the decade it’s about profiting off sadness and it became…a profitgenerating sad anthem. Meta much? But the deep cuts are where it shines Crawl” with its ominous bassline and spokenword verses shows a band unafraid to get strange. String of Pearls” is a heartbreaker that never gets enough credit. And Shut Down” has more bite than anything on Grave Dancers Union. Emotionally Dim Light hits harder. It’s not about saving runaways or rising from the ashes. It’s about being stuck in the ash knowing it and still playing your damn heart out. There’s a sense of reluctant maturity here a band confronting adulthood fame fatigue and spiritual boredom all while still rocking out in their own slouchy beautiful way. And finally it’s more honest. Grave Dancers Union was the album Soul Asylum had to make to stay alive in the industry. Let Your Dim Light Shine is the one they made because they had something to say and didn’t care if it made the Top 40. It’s the sound of a band learning how to keep going when the spotlight fades and for that reason alone it deserves more love than it gets. So here’s to the weird shadowy notquiteradiofriendly beauty of Let Your Dim Light Shine. It might not have won Grammys but it captured something more valuable the awkward offbeat latenight soul of ‘90s altrock. Please remember what subreddit you are in this is unpopular opinion. We want civil and unpopular takes and discussion. Any uncivil and ToS violating comments will be removed and subject to a ban. Have a nice day! *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Hang time is their best seconded by and the horse they rode in on.. third place to while you were out. In my opinion always and forever Finally the Soul Asylum fan representation. Agree on String Of Pearls and To My Own Devices plus Nothing To Write Home About should also get brought up more. Promises Broken shouldve been a hit. Its all shitty christian rock Post 35 Religion Mega Thread Please post all topics about religion here Please remember what subreddit you are in this is unpopular opinion. We want civil and unpopular takes and discussion. Any uncivil and ToS violating comments will be removed and subject to a ban. Have a nice day! *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Idk im tired of it existing but im also tired of discussing it lol If there is a God he’s either the shittiest parent who ever existed or he’s the deist set it and forget it” model who was just curious to see what would happen Either way he’s not worth worshipping This is gonna be a shitshow If God were real he wouldnt need humans to argue his existence. all who think they’ve figure god out are wrong. all who think they haven’t figured god out are wrong. we’re all wrong. deal with it. It would be amusing if there was a god but all the faiths were wrong. Like not one of them even came close. Forget all faiths are true what if all faiths are false? As Homer Simpson once said every week were just making God madder and madder. Ironically some religions nowadays have become idols for their believers and thats why they care more about being part of it thsn actually practicing it. There might be a god but not the one in any religion on earth. Religion sucks in some ways but we wouldn’t be here without it The reason for existence and the meaning to all things never been a moment I haven’t felt grateful and never a moment we have not been in a conversation of sorts open your heart and mind find the peace you deserve and love the moments we have. It’s truly not forever we are all destined for the end at some point and no matter what happens every moment is truly a lesson and a chance for us to find ourselves. There are 57 gods in this reality and you can’t disprove any of them Post 1 Casual Questions Thread This is a place for the PoliticalDiscussion community to ask questions that may not deserve their own post. Please observe the following rules **Toplevel comments** 1. **Must be a question asked in good faith.** Do not ask or . 2. **Must be directly related to politics.** Nonpolitics content includes Legal interpretation sociology philosophy celebrities news surveys etc. 3. **Avoid highly speculative questions.** All scenarios should within the realm of reasonable possibility. Sort by new and please keep it clean in here! . This is a subreddit for genuine discussion * Please keep it civil. Report rulebreaking comments for moderator review. * Dont post low effort comments like joke threads memes slogans or links without context. * Help prevent this subreddit from becoming an echo chamber. Please dont downvote comments with which you disagree. Violators will be fed to the bear. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Do you think Elon Musk is serious about making a push for a 3rd party or is this just bluster during his dustup with the POTUS? Did he get any meaningful response when he posed this on his own social network? I dont use it Wondering how other seniors are feeling about the 500 billion cut to Medicare in the big new bill. Hey all where is the info for at what time the press secretary briefings occur like will leavitt take quistions tomorrow if so at what time and where to watch. Thanks Can some eli5 what the big beautiful bill is about? Fire all politicians if we deficit Why are we UScentric on politics and discuss nonUS affairs less and less especially recently? I mean why more threads on US politics and less on international ones? r/internationalpolitics seems like the type but its less busy than I hoped for. [deleted] Hey I need help identifying a concept that Ive been chewing on for awhile. Its not fully fleshed out and thats why Im hoping to find preexisting theories that have fleshed out this idea already. The first idea is that the buyerseller relationship is a powerimbalance generally speaking. There are contexts where the buyer is exploiting the seller typically where theres high competition like labor markets. There are other contexts where the seller is exploiting the buyer like monopolies. Market failures is a term for this but it doesnt attach to a larger critique or framework of markets as a system. The second idea is that transactional relationships are antisocial using the psychological term. A healthy human relationship is a prosocial one with genuine care rather than transacting for maximizing selfish interest without concern for the other person. This might relate to alienation as defined in Marxism alienation from others for example. The third idea is similar to Distributism or Georgism in that ideally the best way to help humans is not by giving them consumables like consumerist capitalism but by giving them tools &amp skills to make their own stuff. Market capitalism does not incentivize actual wealth because actual wealth would transition us to pure abundance where everything is free because its plenty yet free is not profitable because its literally $0. For lack of a better example capitalism would rather bottle air and sell it than provide it for free even though we know logically free air is better than air made artificially scare. Maybe relates to artificial scarcity. The last idea is still very important and its that in almost every marketplace there are grossly unethical products that are sold. Its because the violence is hidden away in the production of said item and/or the culture normalizes the violence. The profits go towards the sellers which reinforce harmful behavior. Paradoxically it is frowned upon to tear down or disrupt the motions of the marketing of unethical products. This may be related to negative externalities. What theory best addresses these concerns? Ideally as an ideology or framework Is it a naive take to assume that significantly raising compensation across the board for all elected officials from city up to federal would lead to a better functioning society in roughly a generation’s time? My premise for this question comes from news I’ve read in the past detailing how many of our smartest young professionals almost never seek out political office usually opting for highpaying jobs in tech/engineering/finance simply because money talks. Say in ten years top graduates out of schools like MIT/stanford/harvard are all aspiring to seek political office because it’s where the money is instead of looking to be a software engineer or investment banker. What holes exist in this theory? Democrats lost the Montana Ohio and Pennsylvania Senate seats last election. Do you think there would have been any way they could have held those seats? Ive done a lot of research tried taking any personal bias or emotions out of it to look at things objectively and after following the money. Ive come up with the most likely scenario using Ai after all my digging as well... Thoughts? Russia and China control the Rep. Party and democratic parties respectively. The politicians dont even know their useful idiots but if you follow the money thats where it leads. China is using our rights against us and pushing identity politics in the dem party. So they can infiltrate our country with no resistance groom politicians buy up businesses and get our secrets. Russia is using shell corps to donate to and influence and control the Rep party. I dont think its all politicians obviously but a good majority are useful idiots or Threatened. Chinas influence grows every democratic administration and same goes for Russia with the Rep. Party Their taking turns fuc$ing with us and enriching themselves... Spread the word to raise awareness mainstream media will never pick it up... Russia and china have us sooo freaking divided right now were too busy arguing with ourselves to even realize it... Were selling our country out.. we need to make a choice.. Americas been worshipping the $ for long emough all our other values are falling by the wayside to the mighty $ and THEIR USING US. WAKE TF UP AMERICA WE ARE SELLING OURSELVES OUT! Do you think Trump has more lawsuits against him administration for actions he has made as president than he does for his business choices? as bad as the republican leadership is atm do you think the dems honestly have a chance to win the next election given their current choice of leaders? I want to understand the mindset of trump supporters/republicans. Our respective news sources are so wildly different and saying really incendiary things about one another that Ive realized that no one is really speaking the same language anymore so this is one of my attempts to bridge that gap. For those who support specifically as it relates to the Big Beautiful Bill are the estimated results/consequences what you thought they would be? if theyre not what are your thoughts/feelings? if you like the bill and its effects I would love to understand what parts and why? have you talked to your representatives about it? Would you? Why or why not? TIA for those who take time to answer. If you are not a trump supporter or Republican or supporter of the bill then Id ask that you either wait to post your comments and note that in your response if possible. Edit thanks for the question I do need to clarify results doesnt make sense because it hasnt passed yet. That should have been proposed/estimated results or consequences. How to help academic institutions resist Trump What are your thoughts? Should the President voted by the people in which the Electoral votes are casted based on the people’s vote per state have a say in a tie breaker in the House becoming President of the House just like with the Vice President breaking the tie in the Senate President of the Senate? Is there any article with lots of data points that could prove if CBP has significantly changed i.e. more scrutiny more bans etc.? Anecdotally I hear that the entry points at LAX and SFO havent changed much. Also the few detainments Ive heard were detainments I feel wouldve happened in any other administration. They just gained headlines cause Trump created this political situation regarding entry to the US. That being said I do feel the bad apples in CBP are embolden to act rogue which creates more extreme headlineworthy reports. This maybe silly but have we ever thought about why we don’t have a vote when it comes to impeaching a president? We vote for everything else but when it comes to congress wanting to impeach presidents we don’t have a say? Which political party has had more scandals. Why is everyone saying its a good thing CBS is being sued for editing the Harris interview but at the same time maintaining Fox News did nothing wrong by editing the Trump interview? This thread has 2 million people in it but each post only has a couple if any votes. Did something happen or are all those accounts just fake? Why are questions about Harris not allowed here? I have had two posts removed for not being allowed because they Provide some background and context. Offer substantive avenues for discussion. Please dont submit prompts such as DAE ELI5 CMV TIL AskA polls requests for users to educate you on a subject or assist you with an outside argument bald speculation and discussion prompts that boil down to thoughts how does this affect the election discuss and other similar permutations. All I did was ask if her running again in 2028 is a mistake and if she does what messaging would people like to see. What is Clarence Thomas voting record on issues that Trump touts? Has he ever voted against something Trump is backing? is plateauing or decreasing in the United States and Western Europe despite it growing in Asia. Why are these countries against it? And how could it become more popular? Is there a guide to which speech is censored? Specifically what counts as a threat. Will deregulation equate less protections for individuals against being deceived exploited conned or abused? If a house construction or an automobile is deregulated with the idea of increasing production and decreasing prices won’t it also remove the protections as consumers from spending our hard earned money on a house or car that won’t be built to quality or regulated standards ? Am I understanding correctly that the current budget reconciliation bill would add $600 billion to the deficit? Or is it that it would make the total deficit $600 billion that sounds too low? How exactly did Donald Trump come to be associated with the far right? He used to be a Democrat but that was probably just him going along to get along in late 20th century Manhattan and many believe he has no core ideology of his own. There was the birther thing but I wouldnt be surprised if he didnt believe it himself and the trade war stuff just reminds me of my drunk uncle at Thanksgiving ranting about the goddamned Japanese kicking our asses! back in the late 80s. And protectionism wasnt a major plank of the American far right prior to his ascendancy as far as I know. How did all these Bannon/Miller/ClaremontInstitute/younameit types glom onto him? How did we get to the point that Viktor Orban is a keynote speaker at CPAC and the vice president endorses the AfD in Germany? might be a dumb question i dont really know how in depth the 2 party system is but what if someone grifted their way into a government position? like for example if someone ran as president under the republican party for example made promises that would resonate with republicans got elected because of those promises and then just completely went back on every single one of them and started making choices that would be considered like farleft or something. grift might not be the right word but i’m referring to when online influencers all of a sudden start spreading rightwing rhetoric in an effort just to make money. in the case of my question it would be spreading rightwing rhetoric in order to get elected into a government position. i know this has probably never happened but is it possible? and why hasn’t anyone done it if it is? [removed] If youve ever changed your political beliefs what were major contributors that led to the change? [removed] Especially in recent times since trumps reelection people seem to be putting a lot of time and energy into being hateful mean and or cruel to the other party”. Members of both major parties are guilty of this and the fact that we as Americans can so easily develop such a negative relationship with our fellow Americans over something like a political party or political views is insane to me. I guess my question here really is if we have so many people in this country against a leader and against the policies being put in place why don’t any of these people who feel so strongly direct their efforts into rallying likeminded people behind them to gain the support to purse a political office and try to put themselves into a position where they might actually be able to make use of the way the American political system operates to try and make a difference in the policies and matters that cause them so much grief. I know people sitting behind a keyboard angrily is nothing new on the internet but still if these things are so incredibly important to these people why not make an attempt to create some kind of change rather than bitterly spreading hate? Why are our leaders in congress allowing trump to destroy our economy? The first debate was a disaster for Biden forcing him to drop out of the race. However Trumps second debate was a disaster for him with him spouting conspiracy theories and looking like a lunatic. Why did the first debate hurt Biden while the second debate did not help Kamala? As it pertains to the 119th Congress Ranking Member of the House Oversight Committee first it was Gerry Connolly over AOC and now itll be Stephen Lynch over Jasmine Crockett. Why cant aging Democrats get over their softbrained staleminded stickinthemud selves regarding this stasis of theirs on seniority subduing and snuffing out changes thatd behoove Team Blues future? Are birth rates actually low? I live in the US and hear people saying this but like what does it actually mean for the birth rates to be low? What are the stats on this? In what countries are the birth rates decreasing and in what countries are they increasing? Why do people care if the birth rates decline beyond the fact that more people means a larger work force? Please tell me it’s not just about the work force. Additionally it always seems like some weird eugenics thing whenever i hear people complaining about it. Something like intellectually inclined people need to have more kids” but that line of logic is literally eugenics [deleted] Trump is one of the only president in the world I have seen who only talks in superlatives for both the good and the bad..for literally everything..and that is extremely hilarious &amp also very concerning. What is that mans vocabulary made of? Am I crazy for thinking student loans shouldnt be wiped away by the government? Im a Democrat but I dont understand why people are so passionate about this. I started to wonder where constitutional law stood with regard to emergency elections. Specifically are there any circumstances under which the American people can demand an emergency election if their representatives are not performing adequately or if they are obstructing the processes of governing. For instance today I watched a House hearing during which the republicans refused to speak or respond to any question put to them by a Democrat. They simple refused to engage in any process at all. They are not representing their constituents. Anyway I couldn’t find a quick answer when I googled it so I went to chatgbt. This was the response It speaks for itself. Hey everyone! Curious your take on if Independent candidates can have a real shot at winning elections in our extremely polarized political climate? If so what would it take? What holds these candidates back? We are supporting Independents locally at but curious if anyone who is running for office/involved in local politics has their own perspective! Could we push for a referendum of some kind? Politics as usual clearly isn’t cutting it. Could we flood congress with demands for a Trump Refferendum which would call for the impeachment and removal of the president if passed? Not sure about the process involved but I feel like fighting for an action the people can participate in would be a valuable course think like most of us I am sick of all of the extreme media which I understand is just an attempt by both parties to gain voter share and nothing else. Any media outlet is extreme in my opinion. Where can I see the real work of the house and senate? Do I need to sift through long bulletins? The real information and truth should be highlighted to Americans and use that information to vote. Aka Senator X displays history of their voting bill proposals reasoning and beliefs. What action have they taken? What means the most? TRULY Senator Y same above Or is the point for us to not really know that and its all corrupt anyway? Anything inherently nonpolitical that makes you associate someone with a certain party? I’m making a list of things that are inherently non political that I associate with certain parties based on my assumptions and biases. I realize that all of this is very individual and varies from person to person but on a broad scale…. what are non political things ideas hobbies interests etc that would make you assume someone belongs to a certain party? not talking going to church” or growing up in california” or something obvious but more obscure things about someone that help you get an idea of someone’s political party like wearing boots in the summertime” or using mints instead of gum” or hello kitty is their fave Sanrio character” Hi! With the state of the US right now I think its a good idea for me to get into politics so are there any unbiased as much as possible websites that say what laws/bills/acts are trying to be passed maybe a copy of them and by who? And maybe the status of them being passed if possible? Anything is appreciated thanks! With all the negativity Trump is having this week what are the chances of a big blue/red wave for the upcoming midterms? The GOP will not turn on him he is making it so anyone who oppresses him is protected. Most of his hard corn followers are white supremacists who want only the white race and every one is like every one else. He has created a world where its all fake news unless it comes from him nothing is his fault. They were ready to string up pence because he challenged him. The US government looks so underdeveloped. Only two parties two possible candidates in elections. Each of them represents completely opposite ideas. There is almost no political diversity. I mean if you support only one thing from your candidate’s program but can’t agree with the rest you are left with the choice to either vote for things you dont really agree with vote for a completely different candidate or not vote at all. As l understood you cant even vote for your favorite candidate directly complicated system with votes per state or something sounds like your vote is not really changing anything. Could someone explain it to me? Post 2 Should U.S. citizens have more say in federal policy? Would more direct voting make Congress more accountable? One of Congress’s most important functions is to serve as a medium for representing the people’s legal and political interests. This function reflects the Republic” in our constitutional democraticrepublic system representative democracy. However due to the increasing influence of money in politics this medium has arguably become less effective at representing the public’s interests as some politicians appear to be swayed more by special interest groups than by their constituents. With that in mind would you support expanding direct voting options at the federal level similar to those commonly used in local and state elections? For example what if citizens could vote directly on major national issues such as tax rates federal marijuana legalization abortion measures social programs broader federal spending etc.? Edit I imagine the system would be similar to how it works at the state level where a petition could be used to propose a federal measure or if a measure reached a stalemate in Congress it could be put to the voters to decide. . This is a subreddit for genuine discussion * Please keep it civil. Report rulebreaking comments for moderator review. * Dont post low effort comments like joke threads memes slogans or links without context. * Help prevent this subreddit from becoming an echo chamber. Please dont downvote comments with which you disagree. Violators will be fed to the bear. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Direct democracy is unscalable. Direct voting is rife for abuse. The middle ground is something called sortition. In sortition citizens are chosen by a fair lottery. About 500 citizens are chosen by lottery to form a Citizens Assembly. In this Citizens Assembly the citizens are then given the opportunity to learn evaluate deliberate propose and vote. The process usually goes like * A decision is made to deliberate on a certain topic for example gay marriage or climate change or whatever else. * A fair lottery chooses citizens to participate in the process * Experts are trotted out to give courses and expertise on the topic under discussion. * Participants are given the opportunity to ask questions during expert Q&ampA. * Participants break down into small groups of 510 participants for discussion * Participants reconvene for larger group discussions * Interest groups are invited for independent testimony on the topic. * Participants are asked to make proposals * Participants vote on the proposals * Voila decisions are made. Sortition allows normal citizens to participate directly in the decisionmaking process. Sortition also allows normal citizens to become fullyinformed about the topic they are voting on. This isnt just my showerthought. Advisoryonly Citizens Assemblies have been tried throughout the world in my opinion with excellent results. Citizens Assemblies were for example crucial for the legalization of abortion and gay marriage in Ireland. Ballot measures do not reduce the impact of money in politics they give it even greater advantages. Ok I put out a ballot measure to set taxes to zero It passes Now what? Hell no. I dont even support it on the state level. Its impossible for the average voter to have the expertise to make these decisions. I dont think ballot initiatives in California worked that great. You end up with stupid things voted in and then you have to label everything in the world as causing cancer or something. They are also gamed by people with money too. Who has the money to buy the attack ads? Fwiw some of it is attitudinal. All our elected officials and the judges derive their power from the consent of the governed they are our employees. The challenge is that no one seems to report/treat them in that fashion preferring to see Presidents as leaders vs not the top admin of the executive branch or justices as democracy priests vs refs. This stuff where your direct reports eg congressional reps can’t be arsed to explain to you why they voted on the legislation they did is — well bullshit. Every member of the House of Representatives is up for reelection every two years. Onethird of all senators are up for reelection at the same time. The fact that incumbents are overwhelmingly reelected is less a function of special interest groups” than it is the Occam’s Razor answer which is their constituents like them and keep voting for them. The public’s” interests writ large are not at issue in these elections. The nation as a whole doesn’t vote for an individual representative or senator nor does it have the right to. Only voters in the representative’s district or the state for a senator do. This isn’t a function of special interests it’s how the Constitution says these representatives are elected. If a representative or senator is seen as too beholden to special interests in terms of how they vote then it’s up to the people of that district or state to oppose the incumbent. Lets be real blanket direct democracy for every major issue would be an absolute dumpster fire. What I’d actually love to see is something like participatory budgeting at the federal level the government allocates funds for local stuff think schools clean energy roads and we get to actually propose ideas debate them and vote on what gets built. Our reps can keep handling the massive complicated legislation. But this would let us shape the things we see every day. Its how you get people to trust the government again and feel like they have some actual power. Yes more electors more states get Puerto Rico and DC to be a state split Cali into 3 and Texas into five make DC a state. Make it so that there are a representative for every half a million population. We’d fall apart pretty quickly It would be a tyranny of the majority which is unstable True democracy is a dangerous thing. It’s 2 wolves and a sheep deciding what’s for dinner. Direct voting on policy doesnt reduce the impact of money lobbying another avenue for money or those who can afford to buy politics and politicians. I’d be open to very limited carefully structured direct voting at the federal level not because I want a pure democracy I don’t but because Congress has increasingly failed in its basic duty to represent the public. We’re a republic for a reason. The Electoral College Senate balance and staggered terms all exist to prevent mob rule and preserve minority especially rural interests. That structure shouldn’t be tossed out just because people are frustrated but the frustration is valid. I’m going to go against the majority on here and say I support ballot initiatives insomuch that there is a high threshold to put something on a ballot. For example something like 50% of each state’s population or something like that. I have a positive view on ballot initiatives because I’m from Ohio. Without ballot initiatives our state would have criminalized abortion abortion is legal here and criminalized weed. I’m sorry but I feel the average voter makes the right decision without a politicians and a cult of personality to deal with. Most voters support legal abortion and legal weed. These are popular positions. However people still vote for those against these positions. Direct ballots are probably not the best solution. But it would be a way to deal with the problem of parties claiming popular mandates that they dont actually have. The American people voted for this is used too often to justify extreme policies. democracy is fundamentally incompatible with capitalism theres no way they can be reconciled. Of course US citizens should have more say they should have the entirely of the say thats what democracy is. Setting aside the issues that arise with any law being introduced and passed by largely uneducated voters unless protections are put in place Congress will just override it if they want to. Look at Missouri for this exact problem. Abortion rights minimum wage increases and paid sick leave were all recently passed by direct ballot and theyre all being challenged by the conservative Congress. Paid sick leave and minimum wage increases are a mere days or weeks from being reversed. or delegative democracy has more potential than direct democracy. However due to the increasing influence of money in politics And you dont notice the money being paid to influence people against their own best interest? Did you pay attention to 2024? What mode of government prevents masked thugs kidnapping people off the street and selling them to foreign slave labor camps to be worked to death? Cause im at the point where I couldnt possibly give less of a shit about other considerations. My only consideration is how we get a government I dont need to be afraid is going to dispear my loved ones at any random moment. The system lacks sufficient checks and balances. We dont need more elections or more items on the ballot. We need to have a more formidable gauntlet that prevents tyrants from doing what they want. Moderate voices in both parties have become useless sacks. When SuperPAC’s run by party leaders dictate primaries all you get is wingnuts and neutered incumbents. Citizens United is what will kill this country. And here I am thinking that the Senate should go back to appointments by the states. ¿How much more direct can you make voting for Congressional reps Senators and House Representatives? • it is presently direct voting. I agree that the moneychangers” of special interest groups and lobbyists wield tremendous influence especially once they’re in office. The other provisions that makes things advantageous to incumbents is the ability to accumulate campaign funds over time. This does makes it more challenging to unseat a sitting member given their access to greater campaign funds greater visibility greater name recognition etc. But I’m not sure how much more direct the process can be. We can still vote the bums out!” Unfortunately there are A LOT of intellectuallylazy voters on BOTH sides of the aisle. I’m sure there will be a lot of respondents who think these intellectuallylazy” voters are more heavily skewed to the side opposite their own political views hell just read some of the rhetoric shared in this sub. That would be a false premise statistically. I get quite tired of reading about how progressive liberals have more advanced degrees and surveys which say …blah blah blah.” That guarantees nothing! Even Congress and the President should have less say in federal policy. Federal policy should be extremely limited in nearly every area as both the Constitution and common sense demand. Give the senate less power and r/UncapTheHouse to give more equally distributed representation Our democracy is over dude no need to even theorize — https//dissentinbloom.substack.com/p/themachineswerechangedbefore Post 3 How has Barack Obamas legacy changed since leaving office? Barack Obama left office in 2017 with an approval rating around 60% and has generally been considered to rank among the better Presidents in US history. CSPANs historian presidential rankings had him ranked at #10 in 2021 when they last updated their ranking. One negative example would be in the 2012 Presidential Debates between Barack Obama and his Republican challenger Mitt Romney in which Obama downplayed Romneys concerns about Russia saying the 80s called they want their foreign policy back which got laughs at the time but seeing the increased aggression from Russia in the years since then it appears that Romney was correct. So Id like to hear from you all do you think that Barack Obamas approval rating has increased since he left office? Decreased? How else has his legacy been impacted? How do you think he will be remembered decades from now? Etc. . This is a subreddit for genuine discussion * Please keep it civil. Report rulebreaking comments for moderator review. * Dont post low effort comments like joke threads memes slogans or links without context. * Help prevent this subreddit from becoming an echo chamber. Please dont downvote comments with which you disagree. Violators will be fed to the bear. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Obama was an exciting and inspiring candidate. He was our opportunity to reset the US from the Bush era. Fix things. End the stupid wars. Get some big bills out. Obamacare is a step in the right direction but its very flawed. His green energy bill made Tesla and Elon powerhouses. His lack of legislative success has made an entire generation jaded about politics and emboldened the far right. Zero special prosecutors assigned zero successful prosecutions of his administration officials year over year of economic improvement reduced annual deficits from $1.2T to $600B etc. The Obama administration was scandal free and running pragmatically. I think it looks better with time as the failures of subsequent administrations pile up. Republicans have done their best to undo everything he ever touched. Obamacare is still better than what came before it but I would say he doesnt have much else left. Hell be remembered as the first nonwhite president and historians will remember how remarkably scandal free his administration was compared to what was before and after. I voted for Obama twice. There were things he did in office that I found disappointing. Not pardoning Snowden not punishing the people who were responsible for the financial crisis of 2008 all of the damn drone strikes. That being said I dont think were going to have an accurate take on any of the modern presidents until long after the Trumpism has fully ended. Trump sucks all the air out of every conversation. He bends the legacies of everyone else around him to the extent that W. is now remembered fondly. I can speak as an outside as I wasn’t a citizen at the time. He represented the best of America. He was smart calm confident compassionate. People outside of the US generally looked at America in a much better light for having elected him and it represented a very hopeful feeling after the disaster that was the Bush presidency. The Republican Party completely and unjustifiably undermined him. They had an opportunity to work with him to pass meaningful legislation better healthcare better gun laws border security containing Chinese influence TPP containing Irans nuclear ambitions etc etc. They used the filibuster and legislative tactics to basically grind everything to a halt. They correctly calculated that their base would not blame them for being obstructionist. His best quality his devotion to bipartisanship and moderation was also his biggest weakness and he didn’t pivot. The strategy of when they go low we go high has not paid off at all. Obamacare was criticized a lot but as time passes and nobody has succeeded in coming up with something better it has proven that either a perfect healthcare system is impossible without drastic measures that is or we elect too many idiots into office or both. Obamas legacy has changed in the sense that among he has received a tremendous amount of criticism from the populist elements of both the left and the right. That always existed even during his time but since hes left office with an anti establishment vibe on both sides of the spectrum it has increased. There is a perception among many that he was allegedly a good talker that didnt do anything at best or at worst he was this president that set terrible precedents but was never held accountable. Now heres my perspective. I am someone who is on the left. I hold opinions that are to the left of mainstream liberals on a variety of issues ranging from Palestine to a suspicion of the military industrial complex to a critique of neoliberalism. With that said I think Obama in his context was a good if not great president. I have plenty of critiques of him ranging from the drone war to dragging out the Afghan war to the failed intervention in Libya. However he ended the Iraq War. He signed an important nuclear agreement with Russia in 2010 which even after relations went south still went an important way to reducing nuclear weapons. The Iran Nuclear Deal at the time was working and it prevented a war with Iran. He stopped the genocide in Sinjar that ISIL was carrying out. He normalized relations with Cuba. He prevented a second great depression during the 2008 economic crisis. He carried out important criminal justice reforms that for the first time among presidents in decades reduced the incarceration rate and reduced the crack/powdered cocaine disparities. So for me he was a president with many flaws and legitimate critiques but also a top tier president. One thing has been added. Hell be remembered as one of the last straws before the racists and misogynists rose up to undo the 20th century. MAGA is nothing more than a desire to return to a time when straight white men controlled everything women and people of color knew their places and the LGBTQ folks were invisible. Yes gay marriage acknowledging that transsexual people exist having a woman poised to become president all contributed to the last gasp explosion that is Trumpism. But having a black family in the White House for 8 years is most definitely a huge part of it also. My biggest concern I felt it in real time was the whole Arab spring in North Africa. It seemed that Obama/ Hillary Clinton saw that as good but I saw it as meet the new boss same as the old boss” and wondered if it would lead to another Iran. Ok so it didn’t lead to that but someone is welcome to convince me it lead to anything great. The perception that his administration failed to protect individual homeowners instead of banks in the Great Recession was an important factor in undermining trust in govt playing a rise in the Tea Party Movement and later MAGA. Obama has mentioned this as a mistake that his administration made. I don’t really think it has. I doubt republicans have changed their views in any meaningful way. The inner party criticism is that he and his administration didn’t do enough to build the party on the national level. It’s still probably a while before we know the true impacts of things like the recession and the aca. I liked Obama but a 10 ranking is probably hard to justify though he’s likely top 20. I think Obama was largely a continuation of neoliberal policies that allowed us to end up exactly where we are. His its not a political priority answer to codifying Rowe allowed SCOTUS to roll back protections. The ACA is largely just a payoff for insurance companies and it directly resulted in insurance prices going through the roof. But he was a great speaker... I think Obama the candidate was an inspirational figure for many but Obama the actual president was kind of a middle of the road mostly establishment type guy that really didnt change the status quo in the way that he promised and people expected him to. Outside of Obamacare he doesnt have any legacy positive or negative. Obamacare while good is neutered bill sooner or later it will be replaced / fixed. He took office in a very polarised US political landscape which means his legacy will always be marmite. Americans opinions about him are more of a reflection of the toxic political culture in the US than of his own performance. And that assessment includes every US president of the 21st century. I think his legacy has really taken hits since he left office. I think a lot of his appeal was his charisma and so he brought a Kennedy like optimism that we all loved. But I think a lot of his policy has really aged like milk. His kind of original sin as president was basically *zero* accountability for the banks fallowing the collapse. The public demanded accountability and there was perhaps the second greatest opportunity in American history to trust bust the financial institutions and excesses of Wall Street. He slapped the banks on the wrist and income inequality grew dramatically in the recovery. This caused populist movements in the right and left alike which would ultimately divide his party and lead to his biggest detractor winning the office after. His foreign policy was abysmal. He famously underestimated Russia in live debate he and Merkel underreacted to Crimea and let Europe build major dependencies on Russia… which directly led to the current Ukraine mess. He gave Israel the cold shoulder and tried to reach out to Iran instead of listening to our allies in the region. This confused eveyone over there and caused Palestinians to test his promise of more ‘balance’. Iran started more proxy wars and Hamas was emboldened see the 2014 Gaza provocation war and PR campaign. That was the preview of Oct 7. Obamacare was fine but it really under delivered. Yes it closed some big gripes about preexisting conditions” and coverage gaps for young adults transitioning from school to work…. but broadly it was a bandaid that made few people happy. The liberals states that wanted to do more here got very little on top of what they already had at the state level and Republican states that didn’t want it to begin with claimed to be unheard. In the years since costs have continued to spiral and Medicare / Medicaid + ACA subsides are the biggest contributor to the national debt. It’s basically 60% entitlement growth and 40% tax cuts. He and Biden were the last adults in the room. Obama rescued the country from the banking collapse and Biden rescued the country from the pandemic. I can think of no finer legacy. Both left the country with a globally strong economy. which Obama downplayed Romneys concerns about Russia This is the meme version but Obama was absolutely right and US defence posture remains focussed on Asia where he put it because China and North Korea are the main military threats to the US. it appears that Romney was correct Not really Russia has pursued a policy which was inconceivable at the time. Even then the US couldnt commit resources to counter Russian aggression without being aggressive itself and providing the Russians with an excuse. China is the much larger long term threat already fielding a larger navy in terms of battle force ships. In general it wont really be possible to remember Obama without the context of Trump. And that context is that the US was destroyed shortly after Obama. Much like how context diminishes the legacy of the preCivil War presidents it will diminish Obama. My biggest criticism of Obama is that he wasnt tough enough. He allowed his administration to be bullied by an adversarial congress and they accomplished far less than they could have. Michelles words to him When they go low we go high are now infamous Obama wanted to do politics like a gentleman and he had a wife telling him he needed to keep his scruples meanwhile the Republicans were running touchdowns through the bleachers because they understood that the referees were going home. It is largely unchanged with the Democratic Party base. Though I think that kind of plays into the general narrative that democrats are out of touch. He screwed over a lot of people that lost their homes while bailing out the banks and there is almost no recognition of those types of top down policies that burnt a lot of good will/energy from his initial message of reform/hope and change”. I see his admin as a series of huge missed opportunities and didn’t do enough to prevent the rise of maga I think there are two parallel truths in regards to Obama’s legacy. The first truth is that his presidency was our last normal” one. Things weren’t perfect and Republicans raged but times were ok. The second truth is that a clear through line between Obama and what came next. He was a Bill Clinton 2.0 policy wise moderating issues like healthcare and war mostly leaning right in the end despite presenting himself as far more progressive. So it’s little wonder people didn’t immediately trust his even more right leaning heir apparent and that the failure to meet people’s needs would lead to a Bush 2.0 He was C president in a time where we really needed an A president to right the ship. With time his legacy has only gotten worse as the problems from his presidency still remain unaddressed. Were in another housing bubble. His banking regulations have been dismantled including the CFPB. His chosen successors Biden and Hillary both failed to lead the party in their own ways His foreign policy was overall disappointing. He didnt handle the middle east as well as he could have and we could argue his handling of Russia was in hindsight a disaster. He should have fought more for his SCOTUS seats so hes at least partially culpable for the overturning of Roe Chevron and the massive expansion of presidential immunity. He didnt address income inequality when he had the chance and now were worse off than ever before. He didnt address misinformation or corruption and were worse off than ever before. What he has done successfully is suppress the left wing of the democratic party in the 2016 and 2020 primaries which again weve seen the results. I think in hindsight it should be very clear that his attempt to rehabilitate Neoliberalism has been a bit of a disaster for the country. I think the inability to go over the bankers after 2008 looks worse every year. I also think the material benefits of the ACA are not as widely shared as I was led to believe they would be. I personally think Obama is the reason America got Trump. He left half of the country ignored which made an opening for Trump. Otherwise if Obamas policies were good people won’t be doing a 180 to elect trump. I often think would Trump have ran if Obama didnt do that The Roast of him. Also did he endorse Hillary in 16 instead of Joe Biden thinking she would wipe the floor with him and a repayment for previous endorsement of himself by the Clintons. Thoughts ? Obamas legacy is for most purposes right now Trump. Were watching his legacy unfold in real time as Trump utilizes his appointee to ICE Tom Homan to deport without due process and instigate violence in California. He was a rising star who ran on a progressive ticket and abandoned it to become an extremely centrist/conservative president. His method has shaped the modern Democratic party to be the feckless corporate institution that it is unable to present a coherent or strong opposition to Trump because they abandoned their principles and forgot their policy. Hes still a liberal darling for now liberal Jesus basically but I think his presidency and actions after will be viewed with more scrutiny in the context of Trump when this is all over. Destroyed Syria Started the whole Caged immigrants thing Hardcore deportation policy I don’t know that I would blame Russia solely on Obama as I feel the intelligence community as a whole fell asleep in regard to Russia and their advancements in cyber terrorism. I don’t feel his legacy has changed drastically. The ACA remains mostly popular and was a net positive. I think in hindsight and this will be Biden’s legacy as well he was not aggressive enough in pushing through other items on this agenda when he has a majority. Him letting Mitch McConnell hold up a Supreme Court spot will have lasting repercussions and that is only more evident as time goes on. If you didn’t like his foreign policy then and many didn’t then that shouldn’t have changed and may have mostly gotten worse. I don’t know the answer but how different would the U.S. be now if Romney had won instead of Obama? He has had a number of ridiculous overly confident predictions. Besides the Russia dismissal you mentioned which should rightfully be considered a colossal blunder now that we know how the next 15 years played out there was the deliberate provoking of Trump like a massive superstar deciding to pick a beef with some underground rapper it just elevates them and the underestimation of navigating Congress to get his policies through. Hes still the most electrifying political candidate at least Ive ever seen in person. Of course that level of enthusiasm he garnered seemingly soured massive amounts of voters when he didnt live up to expectations. He had an incredible speech on race that I wish more people watched that textbooks should put in as an all time historical speech for students to learn. But then he retreated into foreign policy. He won a Nobel Peace prize then used it to oversee our longest wars in history. He did get an improvement in health care but then the insurance companies were the ones who benefited. He selected Biden as VP to help him navigate the Senate and Washington politics but then immediately sidelined him endorsed Hillary over him and then we ended up Biden running for reelection when he was entering his pickled state. He was seen as an internationally learned person growing up with a variety of cultural immersion experiences but then in his second term was mostly seen schmoozing with celebrities and doing entertainment appearances. So I think ultimately it will go down as a mixed legacy in the long run. But compared to whos followed him since then currently looks great by comparison. A good president who has sabotaged by bad actors in the Democrat Party and an openly hostile and resentful Republican congress. Lets not forget that the only reason Obamacare got gutted was because Joe Lieberman thought Americans didnt deserve healthcare. He was denied a filibuster proof majority in the Senate because Ted Kennedy died and Martha Coakley was so deeply incompetent that she lost a democratic senate seat in MASSACHUSETTS. Then the Tea Party and Mitch McConnell decided to sabotage his entire legislative agenda. They denied him a Supreme Court appointment and did everything they could to make life difficult for him. Even with that Obama turned the American economy around and by the end of his term in 2016 he had a 60+% approval rating. He ended on a high note and steered America through its worst economic crisis in almost a century. He was prevented from being truly transformational because a lot of people were hellbent on seeing him fail. The ACA like Medicare is what people want but it seems that in order to get the people something that’s beneficial there must be a cash windfall for the industries behind it such as insurance hospitals doctors and big Pharma. it was a big disappointment when Obama continued with George Bush‘s Tracv in Iraq and Afghanistan. We should’ve been out of there. You wanna cut Social Security how about means testing how about not double dipping military state and federal employees who are exempted for paying Medicare tax while working in their professions retired military officers are a monkey the wealthiest at least biggest spending folks that I know Obama just went ahead and raised the aid package to Israel to new heights even though he was dissed over and over again by Netanyahu and it seems played like a fiddle like all our presidents are Obama and the dems could have raised the cap on Social Security tax or at least created a donut hole where the tax picks up again for people who make exorbitant amounts of income and make sure that an alternative of taxes applied to that as well having said all that compared to the current grifter in chief Obama was a pretty good guy Hes the same person he always was. He was a very good president. And he is still a great example of how an ex president should comport himself imo. I know it’s not speaking to direct legacy but I bet that the moment Donald Trump decided to run for office was the roasting he got at the Correspondant’s Dinner by Obama. He has none to be honest besides his conservative healthcare plan. His foreign policy was a failure. His troop surge in Afghanistan…. Crimea…. His failure to lead the party. He forced Hilary upon the American people. If Obama backed Biden we would never had Trump. Obama was disinterested in politics and was completed outflanked by the Republicans. Obama frankly did not try all that hard when he got blocked. Our failures of today can be attributed to Obama. There is no legacy if it is all burnt to the ground in a decade. Barack was a continuation of terrible foreign policy if he listened to Biden for Afghanistan he would have saved many billions. Obama had one piece of legislation that is a conservative idea. Obamacare is not a liberal solution he did nothing to promote a public option or other better methods. Medicare for all etc. He had an opportunity to make Americans aware of the scam the health industry is but he took the easy way out. He gets praise for passing the literal bare minimum piece of healthcare and then did nothing else. Oh he killed a terrorist or two. Man loved his drones. We forget Obama did not support gay marriage until pretty late in his career. Not a supporter of the LGBT. Honestly I think it all depends on certain factors. He’ll always be remembered for an inspiring campaign in 2008 that got people out to vote like no other while Biden got more votes in 2020 he surely didn’t have the same support as ‘08 Obama and as the first black president 40 years after the death of the American Icon Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. At the time I think many thought there was a lot of change culturally but here’s the other hand on Obama’s legacy is that he reminded a lot of Americans that racism was very much still alive and over the next 8 years many racists seemed even more excited about coming out of the closet with their racism. However I do think Biden hurts his legacy a bit. If it is true he played a part in getting establishment Democrats to drop out and endorsed Biden as I believe these rumors were never confirmed he plays a part in handing this country over to a fascist. Even if he tried to convince Biden to drop out in 2024 I think Democrats got really lucky with Covid in 2020 and putting Biden into a position where he could try to run again in 2024 without much opposition as he was already president was a terrible idea and easily could be argued as an indirect reason we are in the situation that we are now. Now I think Biden’s legacy is far more tarnished after Trump in some ways. I think he was a better president than Obama and a lot of those reasons are getting overturned by Trump but the biggest thing being that he basically handed this country over to fascism. I think in 2028 people will not want candidates from the Obama and Biden administrations after Trump. I think the closest person who may have a chance from there is either Tim Walz or Kamala Harris but I don’t know that Democrats would nominate Kamala Harris again because to be honest it seems like they’re learning the wrong lesson and blaming her loss on her being a black woman and not the weird focus they had on the right and the Biden staffers instructing them to protect the right wing’s feelings. I feel now probably is the best time to calculate their legacy because I don’t think we’re going to see another president from either administration. Maybe from the Harris campaign like a Tim Walz but it feels like Democrats are rather disappointed with how Biden’s administration ended which is a part of Obama‘s legacy. Legacy? You say that like he’s already dead. He isn’t…. Is he? Only seen Michelle on the TV lately. Barack legacy as a president was horrible it was tollerable but horrible. 1 goverment debt increased from 10 to 20 trillion 2 obama care was horrible and is still destroying our health care system. On top of covid drug shortages 3 Foreign policy was horrible with Russia and the middle east 4 his economic policy was horrible. 5 he did horrible on race relations 6 he was horrible on the boarder The final nail on his coffin that says I am a horrible president was that he got Joe Biden to be president with Identical Obama office people in the top who seriously turned out worse than Jimmy Carter I think its too early to assess him for better of for worse. Overall I view him relatively favorably. The 2008 financial crisis had the potential to be the next Great Depression and the US bounced back very strongly from it and the passage of the ACA fixed many of the most glaring holes in the American healthcare system but left important work undone. The withdrawal from Iraq was important US relations with their allies were largely strong and if I had to rank him next to his peers Biden Trump W Bush Clinton and HW Bush I would say he was probably the best out of the bunch but again its early. In terms of Russia I do think Obama was unnecessarily weak but at the same time he was harsher on Russia than comparable European leaders especially Germany were. The president before him claimed that Putin was a man of peace and the president after him openly admired Putin and sent the message that the US wasnt interested in standing up to Russia. Overall I think if we compare Obama to other world leaders of major countries of the first two decades of the 21st century I think he would rate rather highly and I think if we compare him to other US presidents of the late 20th and early 21st century he would also rate highly. The criticism against Obama has always been that hes an empty suit and the only talent that he has is in his ability to read a teleprompter. There is plenty of justification for this as when he speaks offscript he will often say extremely bizarre things. Of course many people overlook this because they dont want to be seen as someone who would criticize a member of a minority group. He didnt do any favors to his legacy with his performance during the disastrous Kamala campaign. While it would be wrong to suggest that he singlehandedly lost her the election he certainly didnt do her any favors. id give him a B. Points off for spending so long in Afganistan and the mucked up rollout of the ACA website. But a solid A on his political rhetoric and for this reaching out to Americans. We measure truly great presidents by how they handle very bad times. FDR and the Depression and WW II Lincoln on keeping the nation together. Im more than satisfied with a nice boring president because that usually means were not in truly perilous times. I know a lot of people believe were in the very worst times of the republic but I dont believe we are. Look at past bad times. Were in a shit show but the country has gone through worse. IMO so many people were so incensed that a black man became President that this is the reason we ended up with MAGA. Im sure wed have gotten there one way or the other but Obama lives rent free in all of their heads. ACA was a pipe dream that got gutted. Most people.dont realize how different Obamacare is from what he envisioned. As a result its horrendously flawed and has given the right fuel to criticize the system when ultimately they broke it. Go look up how our economy when Bush Jr was done and what it looked like when Obama was finished with his 8 years. He did a great job taking us out of a bubble burst a failed war effort cleaning house with that and righting the ship. However people have very short memories and dont realize effective hos policies actually were. I could go on and on but for those of us that remember both Bush Sr Jr Clinton Obama etc he was a good President. The issue simply came down to two things ... his name sounds Muslim and hes Black. That absolutely stirred up the racists and paved the way for Trump to switch parties and rally troops. The quip against Romney makes sense in the way Romney was describing the threat. Romney wasn’t clairvoyantly predicting the power of foreign actors influencing social media and shaping politics he was trying to scare the American voter into building a bigger Navy because he wanted some arbitrarily high number of ships using the incompetent Russian Navy as the threat. I never thought he was a bad POTUS and was very indifferent on him in all ways. He was OK at best IMO. The first Black POTUS did virtually nothing if anything tbh for the black community and ironically that was very much how and why he was even elected in the first place. No hate towards him but no praise towards him either from myself. Obamas legacy hasn’t changed. I personally think he’s an extremely likable guy that has no spine. He was always more worried about making everyone happy than doing the right things. 5 bil for 5 hostages. Iran. I personally think we should have met this with extreme force.. We don’t negotiate with terrorist but he did. I think his legacy has changed though it HIGHLY depends on who you ask lol for the worse. Im a moderate leaning republican who never liked Biden even though I voted for him and I absolutely felt as if Obama was very very much involved in the entirety of Bidens Presidency. Most Republicans feel as if Obama had a 3rd term through Biden and I very partially agree with them. Anyways IMPO his only legacy will be that he was the first black POTUS in history. Other than that? He really didnt do anything special. Statistically speaking he had the highest black voter turnout EVER and ironically he did almost nothing if anything really to help the black community in the 8 years of his term. Obamacare was on paper a good idea but in reality turned out to be a massive disaster and clusterfuck. Heart was in the right place for it but it was executed beyond poorly. The economy was fine under Obama but nothing special. I suppose hell get credit for killing Osama BinLaden but that was bound to happen anyways. Under him or Trump or even Bush. Lastly why does his approval rating matter? It means nothing at this point. He cant run again so like who cares I guess? Itd be as if Trump had a 60% approval rating in 2028. Who cares lol? TLDR He didnt do anything special other than being the first black POTUS. Other than that what legacy did he leave behind realistically? When he left he was mostly regarded as a failure having overseen huge electoral losses bleeding of support and having dismantled state level activist groups across the country while facilitating a huge transfer of wealth from the poor and middle class to the wealthiest people in the country. Ultimately handpicking his successor who lost to donald trump who then spent his first term completely undoing everything obama achieved with the exception of the ACA. Ultimately i dont think hell be remembered as much of anything maybe the first of the presidents to fully capitulate to capital andpioneer the role of president as witness. I think those who voted for him and are still on the left have the same view of him. Those on the right have been fed constant negativity about his presidency so I’d have to imagine it’s declined. For me I think by comparison to what we’ve had since him… he seems about 20x better. The polls that said Obama had a 60% approval ratings also said that Trump would only get 40% of the vote. I dont think polling from that time period is overly accurate. Obama averaged about 46% approval rating and that is about where the last 5 or 6 Presidents have been give or take a few points. I think thats probably a more accurate measurement of a Presidents approval rating. We realize just how much more wonderful he was than we already knew. Whole sentences were heaven. Itll just get better with time. It is amazing though how people ignore him bagging one of the biggest terrisot in American history. To me he wanted to be progressive but was bogged down by politics and a lying GoP. ACA DACA Cuba reform and pardoning of a transgender person considered a traitor point to this imo. I think it depends on whether you mean within the US or internationally. From an international perspective I think some people may have realized that Obamas reputation was not all that great internationally. He just happened to be sandwiched between W who was viewed negatively due to the response after 9/11 and continuation of American military interventionism that led to 9/11 in the first place and Trump do I really need to say anything?. I would characterize the initial response to Obamas win as *relief*. American relatives did not feel ashamed to talk about their countrys leadership anymore but they still werent proud of it either. Decades from now I think hell be viewed as a *fine* President who looked better by virtue of coming between the two worst Presidents of the modern era. In my lifetime I dont think any US President has been viewed particularly positively other than Clinton. Both Obama and Bidens wins were thank god moments so to speak leaders our countries were happy to work with but not alltimegreats. Even in my parents lifetime I dont know that any were particularly renowned except Eisenhower Im not really sure how Kennedy was viewed internationally though to be honest. There is the possibility that within the US his star could rise. I think he didnt make Republicans happy and he didnt make progressives happy but he did strike some balance and maybe that will be viewed more positively over time. But the thing is playing nicely with the Republicans does not earn him any respect from the rest of us who view them far more negatively than the average American does. Still evolving from both sides GOP/Dem and lib/conservative. His legacy will be expanding health care coverage for Americans which I believe history will find laudable. In all honesty the rest of his term will be viewed as otherwise relatively inconsequential which is a relative demerit now but I expect will lessen with the years. Strange but I do think his long term legacy will mirror that of JFKs one of more glamour than accomplishment and thats not necessarily a bad thing. Obama himself was quite telling when asked who hed like to be compared to and that was Reagan. I liked Obama and appreciated that response although I think hell fall short of that sort of transformation of the American psyche. And the more ironic thing about it is that I dont fully fault the GOP for him being less consequential. It was as much the fault of the Dems who actually go what they publicly asked for only to have buyers remorse when it came time to enact legitimate change. In that respect both parties were much more interested in maintaining a status quo that kept the Pelosis and McConnells in power. Hope yall look back at Obama in contrast to the current chaos and realize how good you Americans had it. He is the politician with the highest approval rating in the nation last I looked. Things went way downhill postObama. Obama’s legacy has gotten more complicated and not in a good way if you look past the media image. Yes he left office with high approval ratings and still polls well. But legacy isn’t about vibes it’s about outcomes. And a lot of the worst trends in modern U.S. governance either began or accelerated under Obama. Post 4 Why are Average Americans so stuck in the Red/Blue Binary? I’ve noticed that when Republicans encounter someone who disagrees with their opinion they often immediately assume that person must be a Democrat” or liberal.” Likewise many liberals tend to assume that anyone who disagrees with them is a conservative” or Republican.” As an American this strikes me as a really limiting and frustrating dynamic. Why is it that so many people seem stuck in this rigid twoparty mindset where political disagreement automatically gets framed as a battle between red” and blue” with no room acknowledged for alternative viewpoints or belief systems? It feels like political identity has become so tribal and binary that anything outside of these categories is ignored or erased. I’d really like to understand why this happens and why Americans in particular appear to have such a hard time thinking beyond the twoparty framework. . This is a subreddit for genuine discussion * Please keep it civil. Report rulebreaking comments for moderator review. * Dont post low effort comments like joke threads memes slogans or links without context. * Help prevent this subreddit from becoming an echo chamber. Please dont downvote comments with which you disagree. Violators will be fed to the bear. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Because of the fact its a 2 party system and the growing divide there are few issues that both parties agree on. And most people really do seem to go all in with one sides positions and beliefs whenever they shift Cause there are only two parties large enough to achieve a majority vote on anything? Other countries have maybe several small parties that form coalitions. The US does not have that. We have two large parties that are roughly 50/50. If if some people from one party like the idea of forming a third party. Splitting off any portion to go make a third party. When the two are about 50/50 does nothing except ensure you previous party starts losing while your new party is nowhere near big enough to win. And that obviously doesn’t help anyone hy is it that so many people seem stuck in this rigid twoparty mindset where political disagreement automatically gets framed as a battle between red” and blue” with no room acknowledged for alternative viewpoints or belief systems? Because the segment of the population that is a interested in discussing politics and b cant safely be dumped in the broad categories of liberal or conservative is insignificant People who opt out of politics generally dont want to discuss the subject and hence are out of scope for your question People who have not opted out have generally selected their team either explicitly or implicitly. Theres a lot of factors but the central thrust is that politics used to be primarily local where the candidate and his participation in the community mattered most to becoming national where fealty to the party mattered first and foremost. Combine this with certain historical factors e.g. Newt Gingrich popularizing the strategy of obstructionatallcosts to make the incumbent party look bad *Bush v. Gore* and the red state/blue state divide thats stayed mostly stable for the last 25 years the rise of social media which algorithmically drives us into angry corners and give us the need to always be right so the opposition must always be wrong and youve got a recipe for some absolutely stark polarization. Because its the only way to win elections. Until we have proportional representation and get rid of the district system that heavily incentivises gerrymandering people will be stuck voting for the lesser of 2 evils. Because many of us voted for a third party back when we were too young to know better. That’s not a mistake many of us make more than once. There are literally only two choices in America. Either youre Democrat or youre a Republican. If youre against one then youre in favor of the other directly or indirectly. If youre both sides are bad and youre on the left then you SHOULD be voting for Democrats but you arent thus youre indirectly supporting Republicans. And the opposite of course for people on the Right. There are no other choices or options here. Our system currently *cannot support them* because tis a First Past the Post system which means just whoever gets the majority of the votes wins everything. Thus either youre Blue or youre Red. And at this point? Its kinda a battle for existence. If youre Red youre in favor of abolishing democracy and pushing Christian authoritarianism. If youre Blue well the spectrum is a bit wider but generally youre in favor of equality and freedom for all. For me Im a government contractor who works in IT. Or at least I was. Because Republicans were elected I lost my job my career Im about to lose my house and my means of providing for my family. This is all directly because Republicans were elected. If Harris won or if dems hold power this would not have happened. I would still have my job my career I wouldnt be about to lose my house and I would still have my means for taking care of my family. So I can not support republicans because they are literally trying to kill me and kill my family. The Politics of Personal Destruction by Newt Gingrich / Foreword by Rush Limbaugh It’s been this way since just about the beginning of the current US constitution. More specifically since the 11th amendment. The electoral college is sort of written as a ranked choice system. Electors pick two names and the one with the majority is elected and the second becomes the vice president. When we made the pres and vp exist on the single ticket we made the executive election into a team fight. It was electing two people at a time and thus the resources got pooled into supporting teams vice individuals. The 17th amendment increased this problem by taking the senate and placing it in a popular election. By its nature the senate is an even number of people and when you make laws based off a yea/nay vote someone has to be yay and someone nay. By making as many people vote at a time you strengthen the power of major political parties. An upstart party in California would never be able to build power upward because it will get crushed by the cost of advertising to 60 million people that the R and D candidates can afford. The third aspect is the weakening of the legislative branch over the past century due to locking the number of congressmen in the house of representatives. It’s the same problem above too many people to campaign to such that only big money can convince the crowd. Basically parties exist because the system does not allow natural growth of smaller factions. It’s not the ballots themselves so much as the structure encouraging parties to begin with. If I started a NonAligned or Politically Homeless subreddit would you join? They aren’t but they do understand the reality of the system they live in. A first past the post system ultimately forces herding to the two most likely vote getters in competitive races. In less competitive races/states you see more protest voting and apathy. The problem is that too many people cling to the system that the founders set up a significant part of which had protecting slavery in mind to make things hard to change. We haven’t had significant legislative electoral reform in most people’s lifetimes. Because disinformation campaigns have been used extensively to brainwash people. The Republicans have used it far more effectively and deeply starting back with Rush Limbaugh and continuing thru Fox News. Democrats do it too thru MSNBC etc. but in general the extent of the lying on the Republican side has reached epic historically high levels. Uninformed citizens read these headlines or watch/listen to these shows and are fooled just like a cult. Like in the cult it is extremely difficult to extricate them from it. Im not sure why thats important? If you have a pet issue that doesnt fit neatly into a specific partys position why do you care what your opponents classify you as? Shouldnt you be mostly concerned about convincing your interlocutor about your specific issue? This was not true before 2016. Trump used some division pushed by Fox News and ramped it up way further. Trump makes anyone opposing him sound evil and of course he makes democrats sound antiAmerican. Trump is a fascist at heart. Once he’s gone I expect America goes back to fairly normal and stops obsessing about politics I routinely get called a Trumper because I critique Dems from the left. Everyone is in their own bubble and doesn’t like being wrong. Its because 2 party systems are natural formations that arise from the type of democracy that we practice in the USA it is known as Duvergers law Ezra Klein’s book Why We’re Polarized” has a really good explanation for this. It’s less that you’re a Democrat or a Republican because of ideas although you might have started that way and more because you identify with the label of Democrat or Republican. When people challenge your thoughts or points you take it as an attack against your identity not engaging with ideas or beliefs. This is more pronounced on the right wing but is still present in the left also. The people who can engage with ideas outside of their identity / the two party spectrum are likely to be less involved and informed on politics not more. Reddit is a place where people go to talk about these ideas so it selects for the more involved and hence more identity focused individuals. It isn’t just because of the two party system but it certainly exacerbates and conditions people. The US is divided rural vs city close minded vs open minded. We as a species are very prone to black and white thinking friend vs foe at its core. It’s a coping mechanism it’s what fuels racism console fanboys damn near everything. People can and will find ways to categorize large groups of people into friend or foe. I could ramble on go into more examples but I think it’d just detract from the core of what I said. No idea. Well idea is that is what the elusive they” want. But I call it college football politics. Every state is this team or the other and there is some ribbing that goes on every year over it. It’s mostly good fun. But politics is not fun” this is serious stuff. This mentality does not work here. I wrote this poem earlier One reason is probably the blue check mark of the beast on x affecting psychology I got back on recently but have 0 visibility on there https//x.com/your6_/status/1931857916945956963 Hopefully you can see this Please follow me if you can We need a culture where our voices matter even when were not paying the richest man in the world Our voice matters even if were not famous Money in politics especially after Citizens United FPTP and winnertakeall electoral college shenanigans meaning that only 2 parties are viable and the rise in tribalism and media polarization/entertainment” news especially after Reagan and the end of the Fairness Doctrine led to Fox News and the AM conservative talk radio like Karl Rove. Politics is a team sport for too many people they just look for the D or R after someone’s name. What would happen if the Vikings were playing the Cowboys and suddenly the Packers ran on to the field? A lot of Americans can’t conceive of more than two parties. They arent neither party enjoys a plurality of support most people of voting age dont vote and of the ones who do plenty flip back and forth Its not some unique American thing I mean not the twoparty system but the mindset. Some people when they meet someone even slightly more conservative than themselves might immediately label them a fascist and a person from the left would be called a communist. because we have a first past the post voting system and there are only two parties vying for that position. whenever ranked choice voting has been introduced we see a great deal more variety in the political spectrum keep an eye on NYC mayor race right now as prime example People dont think or decide rationally when it comes to politics. It is always either you or them. I wrote about that The shared media spectacle pushes political tribalism as primary identity because its a politically useful control scheme. Its the best a rawintuitive unburdened with any interest in the world outside themselves can do to root for a team. Reasonable people do not tie their egos to politicians or political parties. Yes the United States technically has a multi party political system where anyone can create a political party and run for office. However over time the two dominant parties the Democrats and Republicans have consolidated power and effectively shut out third parties from having a viable shot at the presidency. This control comes down to money power and structural advantages. The two major parties have influenced state and local laws to make it almost impossible for third party candidates to even appear on the ballot often requiring thousands of petition signatures just to qualify. Debate participation is restricted to those who meet criteria set by commissions typically aligned with the two major parties and mainstream media focuses only on candidates from these two parties because those stories attract the most attention and revenue. Additionally the winnertakeall electoral system used in nearly every state enacted by the two parties ensures that smaller parties have virtually no chance of winning any electoral votes. While there’s no legal limit on the number of parties the system is effectively rigged to keep third party candidates from gaining any real traction. And that doesn’t even touch on campaign financing. The two main parties dominate the flow of political donations allowing them to fund extensive advertising and outreach that third party candidates simply cant match. Plus a third party that starts to gain traction get so utterly out spent and pounced on by both parties to degrade and remove them from viable candidacy. Only two candidates Joe Biden and Donald Trump were on the ballot in all 50 states plus Washington D.C. The closest nonmajor party candidate to achieving full ballot access was Chase R. Oliver the Libertarian nominee. He secured a spot on the ballot in 47 states but failed to qualify in North Dakota 3 electoral votes and Washington D.C. 3 electoral votes. In Illinois 19 electoral votes and New York 28 electoral votes he was listed only as a certified writein candidate but was not printed on the ballot. Most Americans are unaware that the 2024 election actually featured 24 presidential candidates across the country. But depending on where you live your ballot likely included only two maybe three names making it easy to assume those were the only choices. This limited exposure fuels the entrenched Red vs. Blue narrative where each side demonizes the other. Biden is portrayed as old senile and ruining the country. Trump is painted as a would be dictator likened to Hitler. The system is structured in a way that effectively locks out third party voices both on the ballot and in public perception. I don’t know where I belong. I’m very pro 2A AND pro choice. I piss people off on both sides because they are the two most emotional and no compromise issues. There are a bunch of reasons. One is because it ends up being about whats practical. The two dominant conservative parties are in power so its practical for many people to go with whats there and real. Thinking and voting third party is much more abstract. Then theres the more important reason Because thats they way that the powers that be want it to be. Conservativeconservative Txxxx or conservativeliberal Harris? Either way they/we get a conservative president. Unethical US militarism will continue mostly unabated Unwise Earthecosystemdestroying industrialism will continue mostly unabated. Its more convenient to shape your opinion to the majority paradigm. Researching different political issues and coming to positions that are split between both parties or just not represented by either party is a pointless exercise. At the end of the day there are only 2 viable options on the ballot so the most convenient thing is to believe one choice is clearly better than the other so that you can quickly vote and move on satisfied that you have done your civil duty. Doing anything more than that is time and stress to no benefit besides your own personal curiosity in politics. I would say the average us citizen is stuck in the red/blue binary because media rich people and politicians work to keep it that way as well as everything getting sucked into this twoparty split to survive. Socialists don’t want to depend on democrats but they can’t gain any traction outside of the party for now. Libertarians seem to be happy being seen as GOP politicians. Christian nationalists Neonazis fascists ppl with grievances have all seemed to fold in to the GOP. Media is controlled by the rich for the most part and they are keen to keep the twoparty system. I won’t discuss why bc I feel like it should be pretty easy to recognize how it benefits them. Rich people like twoparties bc it’s easier to control than more parties. They own a lot of the media as well. Newspapers media sites political positions. They do what’s best for their wallets and that involves screwing over the masses. Politicians like the twoparty system bc for the lazy politicians it makes life easier it draws simple lines and it helps them turn their brain off and be supported. The red/blue dichotomy stems the firstpastthepost voting system which fosters a twoparty political system. The fierceness of this dichotomy stems from partisanship having morphed into some sort of superidentity over the past 1015 years. As others wrote in this thread nowadays if you know a persons partisanship you instantly know that you will agree or disagree with him on about 90% of all policy issues. Imo I think its our natural tendency to form tribes. Its also convenient and strategic to roll a whole lot of ideas and values up under one name many people adopt as a way of pushing them. Its also just bias and laziness. We dont want to spend the time and effort to study and really research what it is were supporting or opposing. We also dont want to question the things we stand by because it sickens us even physically to think something or someone we support which we hold to be very important to us could be wrong. For most its because we are a firstpastthepost system. One party will win along a simple majority vote in most cases and so that greatly incentivizes coalescing behind one of two parties. Since the Civil War those two parties are the Dems and the GOP. For a lot of us like me there is no real choice. I am bisexual my partner and some family are trans and my first priorities beyond our basic rights are the environment/climate change an expansion of voter access/participation and infrastructure investment. Even if I have issues with the Dems approach and speed these issues all get meaningfully advanced when they are in control. The exact opposite happens when under GOP control and currently they clearly want to remove my loved ones from society. Given this reality who am I supposed to throw my support behind? If I were to support a third party under the best realistic scenario that would leave ten years minimum of GOP control as the new party replaces the Democratic Party. Would my family be safe in that time frame? How much damage would be caused to the environment that cannot ever be repaired? How much backsliding into authoritarianism would occur under complete GOP rule? These are all things we must consider and I personally cannot risk any of these issues. Many voters are in this position and again its the nature of our political system. The American political system heavily incentivizes having two parties and the two parties are extremely competitive with each other as they have each found coalitions that split America nearly in half along a lot of emotional and hot button issues that go to people’s identities and core cultural and moral values. And Donald Trump has been basically the main character of the last decade of American politics and he is an incredibly polarizing figure who is very hard to ignore. It has always been this way with democracy. From Athens to Rome to today. Usually two political parties in conflict. My theory is it has something to do with the tribal impulses among humanity. Keeps both parties in power theres nothing that unifies people like having a common enemy I get accused of being a far right republican for being against violent riots but Im not even American. Its stupid I’m not gunna be on red team. They are literally destroying everything that held this country together starting with presidents before Trump but he is by far the worst. They do not accept and absolutely don’t apply anything from their opposition. I watched McConnel derail the government so many times over contrived bullshit. I don’t like the democrats at all. They are corrupt and won’t do anything unless their corporate masters approve it. But that’s who I pick because republicans are absolutely wrong about everything. There are no other options that stand a chance against the fanatics. The oligarchy in the US keeps this war of politics going to keep Americans focused on hating each other instead of them robbing them blind I’ve had a theory for a long time that it’s related to our love of team sports. Americans tend to have a team” that they support through thick and thin and that’s slowly carried over to politics. You’re always a Yankees fan or a RedSox fan. Always an Eagles fan or a Patriots fan etc. You can support a different team like Russia or Ukraine when your team isn’t at war/election but if it’s between your team and any other then it’s only ever your team you root for… Even during the bad seasons when they violently storm the Capital or try to Elect Biden when he’s too old. the republicans are setting siege to LA and New York sending American Citizens and legal residents to concentration camps funding a genocide and you expect people to want to sympathetic with anything they say? God I hate centrists. Its basic human nature good vs evil youre with me or against me type stuff. Intellect is what overcomes those basic primal instincts allowing for more nuanced interactions. Decades of defunding education combined with social media that makes all facets of life political because fashioning everything into a team sports dichotomy is beneficial to political parties and corporate interests. I think there is an underlying assumption on the corporate side that this can be maintained in a stable binary opposition for their benefit. I also think they are wrong. One side is being fueled by an American style of religious fundamentalism and we have plenty of historical examples of what that leads to. I’m not as convinced the far left is driven by true leftist fundamentalism like the Bolsheviks but if they are there are plenty of examples of how wrong this can go. Fanaticism leads to bad outcomes. Unfortunately fanatics rarely believe they are such. Bc the U.S. government worked with capitalists during the Gilded Age to brutally purge the country of organized socialists and communists. And both major parties went on to cannibalize any similar movements becoming big tents that harbor essentially smaller parties that broadly align with the GOP or DNC. And then the US government once again helped brutally purge the US of actual leftwing organized groups via the Red Scare and demonizing any civil rights movements. And the US is constantly importing antileftwing tactics it perfected in Indonesia Brazil the Congo South Korea and many other Global South countries where it expelled socialists. So we’re living in the results of a wildly successful campaign to purge the US of alternative political parties. I’m an American with nowhere to go but towards frustration Southern RepublicanNOT MAGA Because most people who care about politics view it as a team sport and a means of tribal selfidentification. As far as most of them are concerned if youre not on Team Blue or Team Red then youre not in the game. Also most people are to some degree reactionary and define their political beliefs partly in opposition to what their ideological opponents believe rather than from any kind of real deep conviction. I often ask myself the same question. I think most people are much more alike than they realize but those voices get drowned out by extreme voices. This has all been massively exacerbated by social media which I believe has been really bad for encouraging open discussion of issues. As society has become more antisocial and people have moved online they have sought out a sense of ‘belonging’ that they used to get from in person interactions. Social media makes it easy for them to retreat into echo chambers and they become less tolerant of others’ views. Yes it is very annoying at times. America has what is called a 2 party system occasionally we have other parties pop up for a bit but generally just 2. I do think that we should accept that people can be in the center but our country has become so polarized that we assume everyone is one or the other. Americans love to categorize everything. Everything is one to two things. It’s easy to align with it when it’s dumbed down to two choices. Most people feel they can’t find ground in the middle. I have one Dem friend as a republican that I know I can talk too. We find things on both sides which are wrong and while we ultimately side with one party it’s not carte Blanche for approval. Example. We can agree trump is an asshole. We can both agree Biden is mentally challenged and has been for some time. AOC and marjorie Green are both idiots. As well as a bunch of others. This is honestly what we need to strive for. I may not agree with all of his views but I will take the time to listen and then present my views. In a fashion that isn’t yelling lol. We have discussions. Some things I agree with some I don’t. It’s finding the middle ground which is so important. I can say good things about Biden. His infrastructure package was a good thing for America. But that’s it. lol. The parties are now firmly driven by identity. People affiliate with the party that includes people like me. So one who strongly associates with a party is making a broader statement about their tribe. The general rise of independents is a rejection of tribal affiliation. Most will remain loyal to the party when it comes to voting but independents tend to be less committed to the tribal aspects. They give their votes but not their devotion. Post 5 Who are the best natured politicians in American history? It occurred to me today that the most admirable politicians I can think of have two qualities in common they are intelligent and are genuinely well intentioned. Closely associated qualities a desire to alleviate preventable suffering a wish to see the lives of ordinary Americans get better a clear diagnosis of what ails our society. Can you give some examples of Politicians who embody good will and intelligence? . This is a subreddit for genuine discussion * Please keep it civil. Report rulebreaking comments for moderator review. * Dont post low effort comments like joke threads memes slogans or links without context. * Help prevent this subreddit from becoming an echo chamber. Please dont downvote comments with which you disagree. Violators will be fed to the bear. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Jimmy Carter. His problem was fighting with his own party and micromanaging. Frank Church the last Democratic senator from Idaho. He ran a committee that looked into all the shady stuff that the CIA NSA and FBI were up to during the cold war including spying on citizens. He believed that every intelligence organization should have oversight by the American people. If this government ever became a tyranny if a dictator ever took charge in this country the technological capacity that the intelligence community has given the government could enable it to impose total tyranny and there would be no way to fight back because the most careful effort to combine together in resistance to the government no matter how privately it was done is within the reach of the government to know. The Roosevelts As much as to modern standards it may seem like the minimum both Teddy and FDR were revolutionary presidents for their eras economically Carter even hard Republicans admit Volker was the right man to bring inflation under control. Problem was he was a decent man and Regan was ruthless along with his supporting cast. My dream is a hemispheric common market with open trade and open borders some time in the future with energy that is as green and sustainable as we can get it powering growth and opportunity for every person in the hemisphere. Easily one of the best intentioned politicians in my lifetime. Jimmy Carter A genuinely good man who rose to office because of a desire to serve his country and make it better. Despite the rightwing hate campaign against him Carter by all accounts was just a genuinely nice human being and one that was of the highest moral character. He was almost boring he was so nice. Theodore Roosevelt A man who was dealt a terrible blow after terrible to his life his future and his very body. Yet he always personified persistence and empathy for other human beings. He genuinely tried to make the lives of people better at the best possible time. He kept the country from revolution prepared it for war with Germany and kept our allies supplied and ready. He did all this while being called a socialist communist race/class traitor and other things. Even by people who hated him they could not but admire him and his moral fiber. Abraham Lincoln What can be said? He probably is our greatest example of empathy and courage and what it means to be an american. While our civil war raged Lincoln did everything to keep the country from being destroyed and set free millions from bondage. He stretched the law when he needed but always kept in mind his goal of a post war america where reconciliation and rebuilding would occur. He made the 20th century of America possible. He quite simply was a man beyond any of his time and remains the quintessential president for times of distress and danger. Morally he was probably our greatest president. Historical Abraham Lincoln JFK Jimmy Carter Today Bernie Sanders Alexandria Ocasio Cortez I think men like Eisenhower were some of the best natured individuals in contemporany American Political history yes Ike Kennedy ....hell Nixon werent perfect but they worked hard while presidents and tried on how to make life for the average person better maybe the ww2 experience made them more humanitarian ...but the GOAT is Teddy the perfect American President . FDR also is up there with Lincon. Controversial but Im going to say Calvin Coolidge he wanted the president to have less power decreased the budget got corruption out of the cabinet when Harding died and never made any drastically quick or unneeded decisions . Gerald Ford. Ford was one of the most honorable Republicans in Congress. He was probably the only Republican who was respected by even the Democratic leadership to assume the Presidency after Watergate. He pardoned Nixon not out of immoral reasons but to restore the honor of the nation and heal its wounds. In hindsight it would have been better if Ford had won in 1976. Lincoln and Washington are obvious choices so I won’t talk about them. One of my favorites is Andrew Jackson. Now here’s the thing about him he did some bad things by today’s standards but at the time it was widely believed to be the best thing for the nation. The trail of tears did happen under Jackson. However this is not because of racism Jackson even adopted a Native American. He did all of this simply to stabilize the nation he also invested in roads and bridges. The worst thing he did politically was not allow a central bank which was a very divisive issue for the time. One thing I admire is that though he owned slaves he did not seek to expand the institution he believed it was not necessary to do so and that preserving the union mattered above all else. He upheld the balance between free and slave states and Truman once said had he been president instead of Buchanan the civil war would have never happened. Reagan is certainly up there. Theres a reason he was called the Great Communicator. Democratic Speaker Tip ONeill said that he had a better personal and working relationship with Reagan than he did with *Carter* a guy who was a member of his own party. Reagan just had a way with people. Since this is the last speech that I will give as President I think its fitting to leave one final thought an observation about a country which I love. It was stated best in a letter I received not long ago. A man wrote me and said You can go to live in France but you cannot become a Frenchman. You can go to live in Germany or Turkey or Japan but you cannot become a German a Turk or a Japanese. But anyone from any corner of the Earth can come to live in America and become an American.” Beautiful. Post 6 Should pride be more political? With Pride season and the recent surge in antiLGBTQ+ legislation I’ve been reflecting on whether Pride events should return to their more protestoriented roots or continue emphasizing celebration and community building. Pride began as a response to the Stonewall riots fundamentally a political act but has evolved into largescale festivals often featuring corporate sponsorship and mainstream appeal. While I understand the value of inclusive joyful events that welcome questioning youth and build community solidarity there’s also a compelling argument that we’ve become too comfortable while our rights face active threats. The tension between accessibility and activism feels particularly relevant when considering how different approaches might serve various segments of our community. Do we need to choose between political action and celebration or can Pride events effectively balance both approaches? And given that our very existence remains politicized regardless of our personal preferences how do we navigate the responsibility of advocacy while maintaining spaces for community joy and connection? I’m genuinely curious about different perspectives on this. Should Pride prioritize political activism given the current climate or does the celebratory approach actually serve as a more effective tool for social change and community building?​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​ . This is a subreddit for genuine discussion * Please keep it civil. Report rulebreaking comments for moderator review. * Dont post low effort comments like joke threads memes slogans or links without context. * Help prevent this subreddit from becoming an echo chamber. Please dont downvote comments with which you disagree. Violators will be fed to the bear. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Stonewall was prompted by police raiding gay bars because they were considered deviants and charging people with committing homosexual acts. Bars could be shut down for hiring gay employees and serving gay patrons. The mafia paid off the police and ran them so they could blackmail people who went. Whats the motivation now? Sure there are still bigots but the scope of the gay communities cultural and legal victories since that era is near absolute. Seems like celebration is the right vibe. Pride should return to LGB and actual pride and not kink. hasnt support for many gay issues actually dropped in the last year? on both D And R sides too. Its like with marvel movies. when there was only a few of them it gained popularity. when there was a new marvel movie every month people got burnt out on it. The general public is turning very hard against trans athletes in girls sports and girls spaces. I dont think reminding them about any LBGTVQ5S+ issue is a great idea right now. Unless its like a toned down more in line with middle america issue. how about a Pride / thank you parade? like thanking society as a whole for accepting gay marriage and that its a normal occurrence to be gay or for gays to get married? we went from please just accept us to kids sex ed should include kink and trans education and its just too much for most people. people who wont discuss the issue Post 7 What type of candidate will the democrats and republicans run next election? Author Awkward_Purchase9176Post Text With trump gone out of the picture completely I wonder how this will go down this is the first time since 2016 that well will no longer hear about trump. Do you think we will get a more traditional republican next time? Do you think we will get a candidate like Bernie sanders on the left? . This is a subreddit for genuine discussion * Please keep it civil. Report rulebreaking comments for moderator review. * Dont post low effort comments like joke threads memes slogans or links without context. * Help prevent this subreddit from becoming an echo chamber. Please dont downvote comments with which you disagree. Violators will be fed to the bear. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* trump gone out of the picture completely He will not be out of the picture until he is dead. most likely they will nominate whomever Trump endorses. Does not sound like it will be Vance. Blind shot in the dark is Trump Jr. because that name carries weight Democrats is harder to predict as the DNC is a chicken running around without its head. I dont think Kamala will win a primary. Beshear is a good candidate on paper but his polling is currently less than 1%. The momentum seems to be around Buttigieg of all people. Definitely has to be a man as the Dems have learned Im not sure but I think theyll probably get someone who is Christian white straight male and relatively young under 70 lol. Probably another neoliberal or moderate too to be honest. I personally think someone like James Talarico would be *perfect* if only he had a bit more experience not that I think its a *totally* valid stance especially considering the current president had no experience in politics before his first term. Hes very wellspoken maybe not Obama tier but a step below like Buttigieg IMO and while hes a devout Christian has an MDiv his brand of Christianity is very golden rule driven as in he strongly believes in feeding the sick/poor. Hes also a progressive. And he fits the demographic boxes that appeal to the majority. If he had more name recognition I think he would be a major force and would definitely appeal to genuine Christians and reclaim what Christianity means in the U.S. Idk who the Republicans will run but Im very curious to see what that will look like. Trump just has such a grip on the party. I genuinely wouldnt be surprised if one of Trumps children took over. I disagree with belly laughs that Trump and MAGA will go away. As long as Trump is alive he’s going to flame bait troll whine harass intimidate and grift. Trump unlike past former Presidents was vocal and still a loud and strong influence from MAL to the point we saw the House follow his instructions in selecting the House Speakers and killing the border bill intentionally so that we could be in this Miller created nightmare of having ICE and the National Guard using excessive force in Los Angeles so he can try to enact the Insurrection Act while a shit ton of tanks just arrived in DC for a parade. This is like the shit in DC when he attacked peaceful protesters in Lafayette Square with excessive force before the curfews started just to pose with an upside down bible at the church. If the tanks and other equipment is just for a parade is TBD because if the man took over the Capitol building with a mob to kill the VP it’s not past him to try to put the entire city in a military lockdown. Traditional Republicans need to figure out if they stay in the Independent lane or make a new party. The GOP is MAGA now. Sanders is going to be way too old in 2028 to be a candidate even if his agenda is spot on. I expect Desantis and Vance to do whatever makes sense and won’t thank Trump. Democrats will probably lean towards Buttigieg then shit all over each other because they’ll debate if a first open gay President is too much even if he wins the primaries because they can’t help but over analyze. I expect the MAGA media culture still being an out of control machine with podcasts and social media warriors”while Democrats hold onto antiquated methods of phone banking door knocking and post cards. Hopefully the DNC is huddled and very busy with analysts vetting and researching the electability factor before showing their hand. It’s a good two years before 28 campaigning starts. Personally I think Newsom and Harris have too much baggage and frankly are not very lovable to a large number of people. AOC is a wonderful rep and I’d like to see her take Shumers senate seat. I don’t think the voters are ready for her to be president. Likewise with Butttegieg. He’s the most qualified smartest candidate anyone could ask for and I’d vote for him but I’m not sure middle America is ready for a gay president. I’m thinking Chris Murphy or someone like him who is not currently in the social media eye. For the Republican Party it will likely be Texas Governor Greg Abbott. He is the only Republican that has not been ruined by Trump. I think the Dem candidate is up in the air. Could literally be anyone from the field they have now. Since the biggest voting block in the Democratic Party is people closer to the center I’m guessing it will be JB Pritzger. He’s played the second Trump term well as opposed to Newsom who is flailing. The answer to this question entirely depends on whether or not Donald Trump is alive and compos mentis in about two years. He’s been pretty clear that he wants to try to run again so you can’t rule that out. Assuming he has his brains and his health he’ll probably run either as president or as some stooge’s vice president who will immediately resign. i’m using has his brains” very loosely here. If he’s not running it will really depend on how bad 2026 is for the GOP. If the Democrats run the table enough to discourage Maga then most likely it’s some random sacrificial Republican senator/governor who is just there to lose. If they do OK in 2026 but Trump isn’t part of it. It will probably be Don Junior or JD Vance or some other sycophant. As far as Democrats? Your guess is as good as mine. There was a time when it would’ve been Gavin Newsom but he fucked that up on his own. Republicans will run Trump a third time. Democrats will run Pete Buttigieg. Its very cute that you guys think the keys are going to be peacefully handed down again. You all see that article about Trump trying to usurp the California National Guard? Plenty of other examples of Trump trying to install himself as a dictator but thats just the newest one I dont see a lot of people talking about. The next Democratic ticket will be Wes Moore and Mark Kelly. The next Republican ticket will be JD Vance and some jackass. The Republicans may be forced to run someone more traditional. DeSantis showed that Trumpism without Trump is a loser. Trump is a unicorn politician. He spent 14 seasons cosplaying a successful businessman on The Apprentice. He speaks at a fourth grade level and hes *authentic*. I mean hes ten pounds of shit in a five pound bag but his constant lying and bragging are part of his brand. Trump has never been that popular. He got lucky in 2016 to be going up against Hillary at a time when there was a backlash against elites that the Democrats didnt spot in time. People took a chance on him because they were fed up with the status quo and didnt believe he would be as bad as he sounded. In 2024 Trump won because of high inflation that voters mistakenly blamed on Biden. Period. Around 5% of the Republican turnout in 2016 2020 and 2024 were Trumponly voters. These are people who hadnt voted in an election for many years if ever before Trump came along. They didnt vote in the midterms and they wont vote in 2028. They threw off the polls because they showed up consistently for Trump but they didnt fit the normal model of a likely voter. With these people gone and no Democratic president to blame for any economic problems I think the Democrats will have the inside track in 2028 but it will be close. One way they could screw it up is to move further to the left and run someone like AOC. What they need is a less rapey version of Bill Clinton of any race or gender. Buttigieg has been killing it on the podcast circuit but I dont know if US voters are ready for a gay president. Two weeks ago I would have said JD Vance was The Runaway GOP favorite. I dont think thats the case now I think whoever Trump endorses will have a perfect shot. I could see Ron DeSantis but it really depends on the midterms. If the midterms are bad Republicans lose a House seat and a Senate seat and Im not saying we lose the House by like three seats. Im saying we lose it by like 10 or 15. Then thats when it gets interesting Nikki Haley not very proTrump not very pro MAGA very much a neocon. Has a good shot if the midterms are kind of what we expect games here some losses here maybe we pick up two Senate seats and hold on to the house by 3 or lose it by 2. Then who knows? For the Democrats it is a bit harder. Governor Shapiro of Pennsylvania I personally like him but hes Jewish not sure how that would play in the primary. Maybe the governor of Kentucky with his vice president being the governor of Michigan. if Trump somehow doesnt manage to overturn the 22nd amendment the Republicans will run Trumpesque candidates until that brand of conservatism is not only rejected but becomes impossible to win with. A lot of democrats in the comment section are saying that republicans are going to be forced to run a nonMAGA candidate for some reason. I hate to burst your bubble but Trump has met favorable approval and after the BBB is passed the approval is likely to only go up. Republicans like Trump because he is doing what we elected him to do I know it’s hard for some people to understand but he’s doing a good job. Trump is going to run until he cant anymore. The GOP secretaries of state will add him to the ballot in those states. He wont be out of the picture at all until he is dead. Trump wont be out of the picture completely. He will pick the candidate and have a major influence on their campaign. The Dems have zero ideas to appeal to a majority of the electorate because all of their BS is about appealing to minority factions. Theyll just stick to a policy of our candidate isnt like Trump. All in all pretty boring stuff. Republican will probably be Vance or Gabbard Over on the left progressives will say give us AOC! the DNC will say pound sand were giving you a scummy coastal elite like Newsom and we will rig the primary if we have to and the progressives will say yes Master vote blue no matter who! The Republican nominee will almost certainly be whoever Trump wants to be the nominee. Maybe that’s JD Vance maybe it’s Marco Rubio maybe it’s just Donald Trump Jr etc. I don’t think we can really make very good guesses about who the Democrat will be until after the midterms. We’ll see what Democrats are in strong positions at that point. Or it’s always possible that Democratic primary voters decide to nominate some random celebrity outsider out of frustration with the party’s failures in fighting Trump. Although I will say that there’s a high chance that the next Democratic nominee will be a man. I think people will be very concerned that women might suffer a penalty among the Presidential general electorate given that the two times the Democrats nominated a woman they lost. Since following Trump worked so well for them I expect the Republicans to run a farright nutjob Trumpist who will somehow be even worse than Trump but won’t have his charisma so will likely lose. And I expect the Democrats to run a boring middleaged centrist technocrat who will also be a straight white man as a reaction against the losses of Kamala Harris and Hillary Clinton against Trump and who will win only because the alternative will be a total wackjob. Also I expect the leftwing of the party to complain bitterly about the DNC betraying them by pushing for this centrist candidate while themselves backing a candidate that has no chance to win either the primary or the general election because they are too leftwing even for the Democrats. Maybe I am too cynical but I don’t expect either side to choose good candidates in the end. But the reaction against Trump will probably enable the Democrats to win despite this. With trump gone out of the picture completely I got news for you OP. Trump is here to stay unless that sweet sweet obituary arrives first. No idea on the Democrats yet because it’s way too early. But Republicans will either challenge the Constitution &amp run Trump again or it’ll be Vance…as long as he doesn’t piss Trump off too much over the next 23 years. No matter who the Republicans run as long as Trump is still alive he will be the one who’s ACTUALLY in charge of the Republican Party. It’s a cult &amp whatever he says will go until he’s passed away. We’ll get the republicans running some Trumplike candidate that won’t be as popular as he is and Dems will run a centrist corporate candidate who will win because people are exhausted by Trump again and Dems will take this as a sign that corporate centrists are what people really want and continue to slide right because they can’t read the gd room to save their lives. They will probably frame it as going to the center and getting rid of leftwing extremists and elect the most rightwing person they can find. Talking points will be how Trump failed to deliver on his goals and how the Democrats will be more able to fulfil the Trumpist agenda e.g. that * the border policy was just a show and only the Democrats can stop immigration * DOGE was totally ineffective and Social Security and Medicare werent gutted enough * Trump was weak on defense and the Democrats will be much more hawkish and spend even more on defense * Trump didnt get rid 100% of men in womens sports and men in womens toilets and the Democrats will put an end to this Whichever one wins the primary so we’re going to have to put in some work and make sure that someone actually good wins that. If he’s alive Republicans will run Trump again. Democrats will probably run old white straight men for the rest of my life. [removed] On the Dem side I want someone real no smooth talking politicians please and thank you. This is to say Newsom would not be my first choice. Walz is that sort of guy but I dont think hed win. If AOC ran Id vote for her and then shed go on to lose the primary based entirely on my recent primary outcomes. I dont really know Pritsker or some of the other names that have been floated. Dems Pritzker because the DNC is going to buy into it taking a billionaire to beat one Republicans Trump for an unconstitutional 3rd term Given the word on the ground 2026 is one of those rare times when third partys can actually happen. Gallup poll supports this. Here in MA we have several third parties gaining steam and given how toxic the Democrats have become unless we get the AOC/Bernie ticket were going Progressive Party Green Party or one of the myriad of Socialist parties. Really its whichever party gets ahead in the big 2026 third party wave thats forming. The Dems better come up with someone soon. It’ll take Jesus Christ himself to cause a movement in the population. If the Dems are too dumb to get why Kamala lost which is what looks like with her speaking out against Trump over the LA Riots then it doesnt matter what kind of candidate they put up. And as far as Reps they just need someone more likeable than Trump. Ive explained this before The campaign for President is a job application. Youre not going to win by cackling and rolling your eyes. Youre only going to win if you show the country you can tackle the most important problems. And no one is going to hire a ManHater or someone who supports them. A majority of the people who voted for Trump were Married Men. Do you really think those Married Men will vote against themselves having a happy married life and have their Wifes turned into ManHaters. The only way Dems are going to win is if they kick the ManHaters out. Im telling you the first woman President will be Conservative. But thats a different conversation. Trump will run again. The Dems will pick the worst possible candidate and will lose. The elections won’t be legitimate anyways as Trump and the MAGA lunatics will have done enough damage to our election systems by 2028. Democratic platforms can include abolish private prisons industry overnight ICE uses private prisons for 90% of initial detainees align federal spending so no state gets way more money than they contribute all but one state that voted for Trump receives more than they pay in taxes. Harris states paid in a trillion dollars more than spent in their states. restore the damage to health insurance done by the Trump admin and red congress. private health insurance costs will skyrocket when the burden of the uninsured is switched back from the federal govt to working Americans. The dems Rahm Emmanuel...hes understood they must move towards center politics away from woke etc...the average American is sick and tired of pronouns Trans rights woke etc etc... That is why they lost the election. Republicans Trump Jr.... Also...the party will split in two. I think someone like Andy Beshear Current Governor of Kentucky would be a great candidate for the Democrats. Hes liberal enough to appease the Hard Left at least so much for them to vote for him. He also feels centrist enough to attract voters who might be deterred by the Democrats running a more progressive candidate either socially or ideologically. Josh Shapiro also comes to mind and fits the Progressive enough for Dems but WhiteMan enough for centrist/ moderate republicans. I like people like former Secretary Pete Buttigieg Congresswoman AOC Hakeem Jeffries and even Kamala Harris but I still feel as though the country is not ready for a woman or another person of color to be president yet. On who the Republicans will run I have a bit less knowledge. J.D. Vance is the clear favorite as he already is V.P. and comes from Ohio Swing State. That said I would put it past Donald Trump to support someone who is not V.P. Vance and go after someone who fully supports him in the cult like manner he seems to like. Once you open up to that idea the names of random blindfaith Believers in Trump are endless. If J.D. does not get Trumps support I believe it will be Don J.R. maybe DeSantis or even a dark horse like Mike Johnson. Maybe we will get a Trump pt. 3 or a rekindling of Elons and Trumps love and they pick someone together but I would bet against that. Imop its hopeful thinking theres going to be a next election. We are living through an authoritarian coup in real time. Maybe they will let us have a Hungry/Russian style theatrical election to keep the pretence of democracy. Trump leaving will hurt the GOP no doubt but in all honesty I dont see how any sane hard working American can vote democrat unless you really hate your life and country. Bold to assume we will have another election. Project 2025 playbook may get rid of that. Vote for the person with the smallest campaign donations. yeah vote for the little guy the one the billionaires dont pay off. If you ask yourself Is hes qualified for the job? ..... are the people currently in office qualified for the job? They dont even know habeas corpus is. They cant name all the states in the United States they couldnt even pass a US citizenship test. What they can do is suck up to billionaires and do their bidding and it doesnt involve helping you and the rest of American citizens. This is a bipartisan message because its happening to both Democrats and Republicans. Sensationalism clicks and likes is what is driving our media today. They no longer care about reporting the news just what will generate more money and more corporate revenue. Sad that our mainstream media has devolved into a bad knockoff of the National Enquirer. I wish Fox News and MSNBC would stop trying to be shock jocks like Howard Stern. Yes its entertaining but its not what the American people need to hear. Democrats should be someone younger. The last 8 people put into Congress who died were **all Democrats** The Dems will run a boring white guy and the GOP will run Trump. Or one of his sons if he’s dead by then. Democrats will nominate whoever the party chooses no matter what the voters actually want just like the past 3 cycles. Vance will be the Republican nominee with Rubio as VP if neither of them screw up massively. Idk but the democrats really need to get it together. Trump whether you like him or hate him is the most controversial candidate/president we have ever had even though there are many more worse people who held that office This was the democrats shot! Look at the voter registration numbers republicans gained so many registered voters in the last few years. Some states gaining in the hundreds of thousands or even millions in new Republican voters while democrats even went negative. Some of those are democrats states some were swing states. They have a serious problem at the DNC. I personally feel like the Democrat party went way too far left and it’s coming back to bite them. Post 8 How likely is it that Trump would have been convicted for his efforts to overturn the election if it had gone to trial? The prosecution would argue that looking at all the times he lied after being corrected by his own staff and bipartisan election officials the Georgia phone call where he started threatening Raffensperger for an exact number of votes when his false claims were not working the Eastman memo and much more common sense dictates he very likely knew he lost and still tried to overturn the election. However Trump has a history of talking like a mob boss. Although he doesnt explicitly say anything thats a dead giveaway of criminal intent there is overwhelming evidence of foulplay. His main legal defense would almost certainly be that we cannot be sure of criminal intent beyond a reasonable doubt. Trump has a history of never accepting defeat or criticism of any kind and saying everything is rigged if he loses. He also ignores experts regularly and again never explicitly told someone he knew he lost or anything. His lawyers would use this history of behavior to argue there is a nonnegligible chance that he was living in his own reality and is incapable of processing defeat due to narcissistic delusion or that we cannot be 100% sure of criminal intent due to no explicit statements of criminal intent. How do you think this would play out in court? What do you think the chances are of him being found not guilty? . This is a subreddit for genuine discussion * Please keep it civil. Report rulebreaking comments for moderator review. * Dont post low effort comments like joke threads memes slogans or links without context. * Help prevent this subreddit from becoming an echo chamber. Please dont downvote comments with which you disagree. Violators will be fed to the bear. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* He was dead to rights. He can argue I didnt have criminal intent but its pretty easy to show he did in that he *intended* to violate the law. The Eastman memo for instance openly stated that their actions would violate the Electoral Count Act. Arguing we think its unconstitutional therfore we can break it is sovereign citizen you cant prosecute me there are gold fringes on the flag nonsense. Nor can Trump claim to be unaware of that memo he discussed it in the oval office with Eastman and Pence himself. Believing you are immune to the law isnt a defense. Thinking youre allowed to commit murder doesnt make murder charges go away. Well in the one trial that did go to court which everyone said was by far the weakest case novel legal theory very hard to prove etc he was convicted of 34/34 counts in a clean sweep for the prosecution and nobody who watched the whole trial was surprised. If the Govt can go 34 for 34 on their hardest and weakest case I have no doubt they could have done the same on the other cases which were widely seen as more serious obvious and easier to convict on. I think the secret service deleted their communications from that day because they probably held the most damning evidence by detailing what Trump was saying and doing during the riot. He was reportedly asking to go down to the capital and refused to tell his supporters to stand down for several hours. *What do you think the chances are of him being found not guilty?* Not good. You might find some lawyers who would go in for arguing the technicalities but I think a jury wouldnt have any of it. Theyd have nailed him to the fucking wall. Jack Smith is a consummate professional and only woudve brought the case if it was ironcland. Trump was almost certainly fucked. Really makes one wonder where wed be if it happened a year earlier. I mean Im not a lawyer but I think he would have been found guilty AS FUCK Depends on which part. Georgia is 100% slam dunk conviction. No question in my mind or most anyone elses who understands the 2020 election outcome. Federally? Im not as convinced the case is as open and shut as others do. While we all know what he tried to do as he was open and very public about it does it rise to criminal conspiracy? Ive read the Jack Smith report and I think it would be a tough row to hoe. Entirely depends on the jury. It only takes one person to force a mistrial I grew up in DC and it would be hard to impanel a jury there that would acquit him. It was a mixed bag. The DC case had a lot that would be dropped combined or pled away and it would have whittled down to a solid case on one or two issues. The Florida case was a sure thing. An appeal of the use of the felony in NY could have gone either way. Id be way more concerned about his efforts to rig the 2024 election. Watch the Election Truth Alliances YouTube video. So many statistical anomalies that its crazy. Why did Trump push the election denial conspiracies? To make sure no one does in the future or well look like him. The federal one likely would have resulted in a conviction but given Fani Willis’ history of bungling the previous state RICO cases that she prosecuted the Wade stuff is not relevant to this point he would have either been fully acquitted or only been convicted on a small number of the minor associated crimes. Garland was Bidens biggest screw up. TACO should have been charged in 2021 2022 at the latest. There was nothing more important for the DOJ to do. Like Nixon it probably would not have gone to trial. Getting him banned from the office would have been enough. The Federalist Society SCOTUS blocked him from ever even having to defend himself by a taking up the case from the lower courts and b sitting on it for months while the former person who held the office of President ran out the clock. If they had been somewhat more moderate they would have not reviewed the case and allowed it to go to trial and let the American people see deeply as to what happened leading up to and on J6. But in the end even with a conviction he would have been spare jail thanks to SCOTUS. I think there was a high likelihood of a guilty verdict due to corroborating evidence and testimony so that jurors could see through his mob boss language patterns. Guilty guilty guilty. The evidence against him is considerable. He would surely used Brandenburg v Ohio as a defense but fighting words are not protected under the First Amendment and he was clearly trying to organize a large crowd and have it go wild. In his capacity as commander in chief he could have also called in the National Guard to protect the Capitol. He obviously wanted mayhem. But it only takes one juror to derail that. Unlike many state civil courts federal civil courts also require unanimous juries. Same problem applies. Ok so let’s just ask you this about Donald Trump and I do not say this as if it is in any way a good thing. Has he ever seemed the type to take advice counter to what he thinks is the right thing to do? Ever? So his staff might have corrected him but the reality is there is no reason to believe that he believed them. He is like a little league baseball player who sucks but his mom says he is the best player on the team. When that player fails they tend to blame anyone and everyone but themselves having never learned to fail. And that is Trump he doesn’t ever think he fails and if it doesn’t go his way he always has someone to blame for it other than himself. And on Georgia come on the transcript is out there to read he did not threaten them for the exact number of votes you can be honest about something where we have every word on a transcript. given an unbiased jury? 100% convicted. Given the epistemological competency of the electorate? maybe 80% as a midpoint between optimism and pessimism. As a matter of law he was clearly guilty but even in DC I doubt you would find a jury to convict him. Had there been a trial the law would take second place to politics that’s reality. It’s anagious to Lincoln pardoning most southerners who fought in the Civil War some things we need to get past and that’s why he did it to a bunch of treasonous rebels. It’s done for the future but the return of Trump messed that mercy up had there been a trial and people paid attention that would have been his demise…….pity. Basically the only good point about Trumps election is that the intelligent conservatives dropped the whole he was innocent bit about the 2020 attempt to steal the election. The Eastman memo was galling and the sheer amount of evidence that they possessed showing that Trump was trying to steal the election was overwhelming. No person whos done any actual research has any doubts that was his intent and the timeline of events doesnt make sense unless that is what he was trying to do. He would have been found guilty probably pardoned. The MAGA are a cult treating them like anything else is a waste of time. Tbh it would all depend on where the trial was and the jury makeup. Objectively it would be a hard case to make given the literal quote of peacefully and patriotically used in the same sentence not to mention precedent when it comes to political rhetoric and incitement. On the merits? Zero percent chance. Of course the trial wouldnt have anything to do with the merits of the case. A partisan prosecutor would present the case before a partisan judge and to a stacked jury. This is how they got the socalled felony convictions against him. I doubt he would have been convicted. About 40% of the country loves him and wouldnt convict no matter what. Getting a jury of 12 people with none of them is pretty unlikely unless the juror selection process is really unfair. His main legal defense would almost certainly be that we cannot be sure of criminal intent beyond a reasonable doubt.” Wrong! Prosecution first has to prove all the elements of its case. It would have to prove that Trump’s objections and doubts were factually false. That would lead to a merry chase. Most likely a trial court would hold that the issue is settled by the Biden presidency and by the failure of Trump’s lawsuits. Appellate courts and especially SCOTUS would likely have a different view. Running down all the rabbit holes would be a labor of years. And if the government had to prove its rebuttals by evidence see remark about SCOTUS above then the circus would turn into Marti Gras. As for the exact question about conviction” a New York jury would give him life for jaywalking. A D.C. jury the same. In federal cases the Special Counsel chose — or thought he was choosing — very favorable jurisdictions both for bench and jury pools. The Palm Beach case was expected to take place in Miami. N.Y.’s case showed how an outcome could be preordained. BTW the crowing over the 34 felony convictions amounts mostly to political cheerleading. Appellate courts have yet to rule. Again SCOTUS stands at the end of the line. By the end the legal rights at play just won’t matter. Or to answer the question a different way Trump was already acquitted by 75000000+ jurors. [removed] That would depend entirely on where the case was heard. But assuming a judge or jury could be unbiased about the case then I would say a conviction would be highly unlikely I mean what is he being tried for? Insurrection? Well there wasnt one. The simple fact is that he believed the election was rigged and obviously its not illegal to think that. He asked some states to find the votes that he thought were missing from the count not illegal ask someone to find something you think is lost he didnt say fabricate votes. He replaced some electors not illegal. He told his supporters what he thought and they supported his view obviously not illegal. He told them to protest peacefully some didnt. Most of all the election wasnt overturned. There wasnt an insurrection. All that happened was that a legal protest went too far and ended up in trespass. Post 9 What would be the most likely response the Trump administration would do if California were to withhold their federal taxes? Governor Gavin Newsom on Friday suggested California consider withholding tens of billions in annual federal tax dollars amid reports Donald Trump is preparing funding cuts targeting the state. Newsom’s suggestion came after CNN reported the president was considering a full termination” of federal grant funding for California’s universities. Californians pay the bills for the federal government. We pay over $80 BILLION more in taxes than we get back” the Democratic governor said in an X post Friday afternoon referencing a recent analysis from the Rockefeller Institute that California contributed about $83 billion more in federal taxes in 2022 than it received back from Washington.” Im curious what the Trump admin would do if California were to do this. From what I know this would be unprecedented. Would/could they FORCE them to via military action? . This is a subreddit for genuine discussion * Please keep it civil. Report rulebreaking comments for moderator review. * Dont post low effort comments like joke threads memes slogans or links without context. * Help prevent this subreddit from becoming an echo chamber. Please dont downvote comments with which you disagree. Violators will be fed to the bear. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Newsom wont do it. Hes taking a stand for PR purposes as he should. If Trump goes ahead with his plan then the state will sue and the state will win. This is part of Trumps lifelong pattern of initiating cases that he cant win then losing them. His loss rate is close to 100% so its a bit funny that he keeps doing it anyway. California as a state doesn’t pay taxes to the federal government I’m not sure exactly what mechanism they’re talking about using here If they somehow did manage to restrict federal taxation of Californians Trump would be obligated to reimpose full sovereignty over the state and the American citizens within it. By force if necessary Can you please explain what it means for California to withhold federal taxes”? Be as precise as possible. I don’t know what remedies the administration would choose to pursue maybe banking sanctions but it’s important to remember that the federal government doesn’t need tax revenue to fund itself because it issues the currency. It would increase the deficit and look bad to fiscal conservatives but it would not impede government spending. The fact youve posted this question tells me that you dont know how taxes are collected. What would the IRS do if businesses head quartered in California didnt pay their taxes? * **Tax Lien** The government may file a tax lien which is a legal claim against the businesss property assets to secure payment of the tax debt. This can impact the businesss ability to obtain credit or sell assets. * **Criminal Charges** In cases of deliberate tax evasion or fraud the government may pursue criminal charges which can result in substantial fines and even imprisonment. * **Loss of Business Licenses** In some jurisdictions persistent noncompliance can lead to the suspension or revocation of business licenses. If they pushed the issue long enough their Csuite execs would all go to prison and the business would be shut down. Its really just a handful of business that are the reason why California is a net federal tax payer. if Nvidia Apple Google Meta moved to any other state California wouldnt be a net federal tax payer. I think california is a net federal tax payer by 20 Billion? maybe 30? but how much money will they need to rebuild LA from the fires? and now possibly from the riots? By federal taxes I am assuming transfer payments. What would Trump do? Try and replace the entire elected California legislature with cronies and ass kissers of his choosing. Watch out America. The American Gestapo is coming for you. How would they do that people pay it through their employer What employer is going to not pay its taxes? This is nonsense to me Yes! It is why it is so dumb to try and pull back federal funding to blue states over culture wars. Easier argument to just massively cut support to red states that are much more reliant on that funding once a democrat is in office. How you figure that California withholds federal taxes? Unless I missed something everyone and all companies send their taxes directly to the IRS and the state has nothing to do with that. I dont see how a governor could tell California residents not to pay their federal taxes. Doesnt make any sense. He would declare martial law and start a shitstorm because if he has shown us anything its that he only hires the most incompetent and unqualified people because he cares only for those who show deference to him and his ridiculous antics. They will over react and make Kent state look like a picnic while they subdue the state. They will take the ~~democrats~~ representatives in state govt and jail them along with the gov and anyone who dares not bow to him. In reality he will threaten all those things and then chicken out as TACO always does. lol democrats everyone needs to follow the rules even Trump ITS A DEMOCRACY” Also democrats we are mad and aren’t going to follow the rules” Other than the fact that this would be considered a secessionist move and would be addressed accordingly whether it was Trump as President or someone else no President would stand for this Newsoms calculation there didnt factor in the various ways that California is dependent on the union. Its not as simple as how much do we pay vs. how much we get back. A significant portion of Californias water and power come from out of state and they rely on the interstates for logistics. Agriculture inputs and waste disposal too. Its not like California stands alone here and there are benefits from being a part of the US that arent reflected in the amount of taxes they get back. Plus isnt this a weird position for a Democratic governor to take? Am I the only one who thinks that? Saying I shouldnt pay taxes because I dont get as much as I give sounds like a quintessentially Republican position on taxes. Typically Democrat politicians take the position that you should bear a higher tax burden because you make more and this benefits society overall. The only difference here is that were talking about states rather than individuals but Newsoms logic seems weirdly conservative. If this was the principle we use for taxes shouldnt Newsom cut social services and reduce taxes on the wealthy within his state? After all theyre paying more than what they get back? If 20% of Californians decided to pay their taxes the federal government would just cut 20% of the money which comes back to them. Yeah California pays more than they get back but that’s a small % of what California actually pays to the Feds. Newsom is a slimey goon. He’s likely going to be the democratic runner since he is unelectable. It would mean that . Does the world really think that stupid idiiot posing as the govenor of California was elected by the people who live here? Post 10 Did the Democratic Party create Trumpism by shutting out its own reformers? From 2008 to 2024 the Democratic Party faced multiple challenges from within its own ranks—Barack Obama’s early reform message Bernie Sanders’s populist campaigns in 2016 and 2020 and RFK Jr.’s attempt to run in 2024. Each gained large grassroots support but each ultimately faced strong institutional resistance. In 2016 Sanders won millions of votes and drew record crowds but leaked emails later revealed DNC officials had coordinated in favor of Hillary Clinton. In 2020 after Sanders won the popular vote in the first three states establishment figures quickly consolidated behind Joe Biden. And in 2024 RFK Jr. left the party to run as an independent after being sidelined from the primary and later excluded from the general election debate. Some argue this repeated pattern of shutting out reform candidates helped fuel populist backlash and created the conditions for Trump’s rise. **Prompt for discussion** **Did the Democratic Party create Trumpism by shutting out its own reformers?** Edit I updated the post to clarify that Sanders won the **popular vote** in the first three states — Iowa New Hampshire and Nevada — not that he won them outright. Appreciate the correction. . This is a subreddit for genuine discussion * Please keep it civil. Report rulebreaking comments for moderator review. * Dont post low effort comments like joke threads memes slogans or links without context. * Help prevent this subreddit from becoming an echo chamber. Please dont downvote comments with which you disagree. Violators will be fed to the bear. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Republican voters fully embrace Donald Trump’s toxic blend of grievancebased populism obvious lies reality tv fame and outright hatred of The Other. Independents Don’t you think this is really the fault of the Democrats?” *sigh* this again In 2020 Bernie Sanders lost in the primaries because the majority of primary voters did not select him. His entire candidacy counted on the more moderate candidates splitting the vote. They didnt In 2024 RFK Jr. had insignificant support among the primary voters and threw in the towel before even trying to compete. At his peak he was polling at 20% You can use whatever terminology you want but these candidates were not *entitled* to win a primary. They had to earn it by gathering votes. They did not Blaming Democrats for not selecting them and hence causing Trumpism is beyond ridiculous This is some insane /conspiracy level garbage. Bernie and RFK weren’t shut out by any institution they were rejected by voters. RFK Jr was actually laughed at and ridiculed by voters for how insane he is. That’s not to mention that no matter what happened in the dem primaries the Republican Party is completely separate and Trumpism was entirely separate from that before it took over. None of your sources” prompts for google searches really can’t even link your own sources back up what you claim. It’s like pointing to fbi crime statistics and claiming that justifies racism In 2016 sanders lost leaked emails *do not* reveal coordination in favor of Hillary Clinton” they reveal internal discussions annoyed at sanders attacking them In 2020 Sanders won one of the first four and tied one not sure why you said he won the first three or ignored that four had happened before Buttigieg and Klobuchar dropped out. Also not sure why you think two candidates who no longer had a path dropping out is unusual or a conspiracy and like always you leave out Bloomberg stayed in Bernie Sanders lost the popular vote in the 2016 and 2020 Democratic primaries by landslide margins. Given that primary voters tend to be further from the center than the median voter that would suggest that he would have performed even worse in a general election. The Democratic party is a big tent. Given their demographics the Republicans dont need to be. About half of that Democratic tent is moderate to conservative. Many among them are nonwhite working class and socially moderate to conservative. Most of the other half is establishment liberal not populist. Dems win when they have a leader who can unify the liberal and moderate/conservative blocs. Given the diversity of those groups that requires charisma. Few people are charismatic. Bill Clinton and Obama were both highly charismatic politicians. Biden had a bit of it in 2020 playing the role of kindly stable uncle albeit gaffe prone although he lost it fairly quickly once elected. Bernie Sanders is a crank and a curmudgeon. He will be highly appealing to enough people that he can come in second place. He will never win a presidential election. Unlike her husband Hillary Clinton is almost anticharismatic. Kamala Harris is not much better. If the Dems are going to allow their branding decisions to be made by scolds who dont appreciate the needs of a big tent and a charismatic unifying figure then they will keep losing. So far they seem determined to lose. They also need to keep the left from burning down the tent. Bill Clinton used the Sister Souljah moment to push back the left activists and brand the party as his rather than theirs. Dems who fail to prevent the left from hijacking the brand will pay dearly for it. Todays Democrats lack the fortitude to do what Bill Clinton did even though the rebranding is more important than ever. No. This is a meaningless question with a flawed foundation and completely disregards history. It’s a classic attack vector by those who want internal paralysis among Democrats. I am suspicious of this post’s motives. Trump is the result of almost forty years of grooming by organizations in some cases going back to the 1930s. He’s a figurehead. Rachel Maddow has done great investigative journalism that should be required viewing in high school. The Tea Party was the first astroturfing by the billionaires partly the ordinary” corporate ones but also the Accelerationists. They learned from their mistakes then learned new lessons after Trumps first failed administration *and if anything they created MAGAism.* None of this was truly organic. It’s taken the oligarchs decades to slowly pervert our culture direct valid fears to irrationality while whipping up new groundless fears polarize and turn us against each while they take control. Ummm… no Trumpism is driven by a complicated set of demographic and socioeconomic forces that have been brewing for a while If anything it’s a response to the tremendous gains of incremental liberalism I don’t understand how a democratic refusal to shift further left could create Trumpism For fucks sake. Tell me youre a Bernie Bro without telling me. Repeat after me crowds do not fucking equal votes. Bernie Math is not real. The DNC is not the Illuminati. And RFK Jr. seriously? You seriously consider this conspiracyaddled freak a reform candidate? Youre just rehashing arguments that have already been made ad nauseum on other subs. Who are you trying to convince with this nonsense? youre really asking 2 separate questions Were there libertarian leftists Bernie bros who became more conservative &amp populist &amp ultimately Trumpers? And is there a growing nonvoting Democratic faction that would respond to Progressive stances like class warfare &amp social justice? Both ideas need to be tested at the ballot box. The huge problem is that leaders of these movements tend to be in solid Blue states which will vote overwhelmingly D anyway. You need find advocates &amp candidates in Purple &amp Red states to see if they can win on these issues. Reddit users are in a huge corporate media establishment Dem bubble. I am pretty left wing and have been called right wing and conspiratorial numerous times on this site. Im afraid you wont get many thoughtful replies here even though its a very interesting and thought provoking question. Take my upvote [deleted] The answer is Yes. The capitalF Fascism of authoritarian government is possible because of the lower casef fascism that thrives in everyday life under capitalism. This is why many philosophers/historians point out that fascism is possible not in spite of liberal capitalism but because of it. Indeed the centralized state was an invention of the bourgeoisie a business innovation necessary to manage its affairs and guarantee markets. So guys like Trump who is not quite a fascist though some may contest this are rooted in and continually reemerge from the seeds incubated by liberals who not only exist as the management/bureaucratic class of capitalism but who stymie more meaningful reforms 44 percent of Americans earned less than a living wage in Bidens final year for example. Of course its easy to smugly throw stones at liberal incrementalists like the Dems. In reality even if they managed to win with a Sandersstyled reformer the system would immediately protect itself. This is a system after all which has historically suicided whole chunks of itself rather than allow reform. Yes. The reason the Democrats shut out reformers is that they only care about their base corporate donors. Perhaps have actual Democratic Primaries instead of coronations of corrupt corporate moderate candidates. Good luck convincing anyone on reddit that any of this is the fault of Democrats because then theyd have to admit that it was the redditlefts behavior specifically that caused the rightward lurch of the last few years. It was their psychotic behavior on social media that caused Democrats to become associated with the extremelefts social positions and proclivity toward mass violence. It was their decision to push divisive social issues that most voters were uncomfortable with demanding not just tolerance but outright celebration and at times even subservience. They are the ones who responded with shame tactics every time young men tried to state opinions that differed from their own or tried to ask why nobody cared that they werent doing well. Theyre the ones who basically turned feminism into the evangelism of the left with the same blowback evangelicals eventually faced only faster because it didnt have over 1000 years of cultural bedrock to shore it up. No easier to just scream that its all racism that Bernie Bros were vile scum and that the DNCs focus on neoliberalism + identity has never failed it has only been failed. Here’s my full take on this The polarization gripping the U.S. didn’t begin with Trump. It began when the Democratic Party abandoned its own base. From 2008 through 2024 a pattern repeated itself populist reformers would rise inside the party gain mass support and get shut down by the very leadership claiming to represent the people. This wasn’t just political miscalculation. It was deliberate suppression and it created the void that Trumpism filled. Whether it was Bernie Sanders or RFK Jr. each challenge was neutralized to preserve elite control. The figureheads changed—Obama Clinton Biden Harris—but the pattern stayed the same. And the results reshaped American politics. Hope and Change Was a Lie When Barack Obama ran for president in 2008 he promised a new era of reform. But his choice of running mate told a different story. Joe Biden had built his career serving corporate interests not challenging them. As a senator Biden helped the credit card industry crush bankruptcy protections for consumers especially students and working families [1]. He also coauthored the 1994 crime bill fueling mass incarceration [2] and opposed school integration through busing saying he didn’t want his children to grow up in a racial jungle” [3]. Obama’s selection of Biden signaled that his campaign’s progressive language wasn’t going to translate into action. Once in office Obama brought in Wall Street insiders even allowing Citibank to help shape his cabinet [4]. Despite having full control of the House and Senate during the first half of his first term the administration failed to deliver the structural reforms it promised [5]. [1] [search joe biden 2005 bankruptcy bill credit card companies] [2] [search joe biden 1994 crime bill role] [3] [search joe biden racial jungle quote] [4] [search citibank picks obama cabinet 2008] [5] [search democrats control all three branches obama first term] He Didn’t Start the Fire After the 2008 crash movements like Occupy Wall Street emerged demanding accountability and justice. But rather than embrace grassroots anger the Obama administration worked to diffuse it. Protesters were vilified or ignored and the banks were bailed out while millions lost homes and jobs [6]. Behind the scenes friction between Obama and Bernie Sanders began to grow. Sanders even explored a primary challenge against Obama in 2012 [7] possibly explaining Obama’s later opposition to him. In 2016 Sanders launched a full campaign on a platform of Medicare for All Wall Street reform and free public college. Rather than support a candidate who shared his past values Obama moved to keep the party establishment intact. He quietly signaled support for Hillary Clinton and discouraged Democratic elites from backing Sanders — prompting concern from Sanders supporters [8]. [6] [search obama occupy wall street crackdown] [7] [search bernie sanders obama 2012 primary challenge] [8] [search obama neutrality sanders 2016] The Fix Was In Sanders’s 2016 run wasn’t just popular it was historic. He drew enormous crowds often dwarfing those of Hillary Clinton. He raised millions from smalldollar donors without super PACs winning young and workingclass voters across all regions [9]. But Democratic Party leadership viewed him as a threat. Leaked emails later revealed that the Democratic National Committee had coordinated to help Hillary Clinton including discussing exploiting Sanders’s Jewish identity to cast doubt on his electability [10]. DNC Chair Debbie Wasserman Schultz eventually stepped down over the scandal only to immediately join Clinton’s campaign [11]. Superdelegates pledged to Clinton before the primaries even began. Debates were buried in lowviewership time slots and Sanders was treated by media as an outsider. After the primary Sanders’s supporters filed a lawsuit against the DNC alleging bias and fraud. The DNC’s legal defense argued that the party as a private entity had no binding obligation to run a fair primary — and the court sided with them. The ruling effectively confirmed the DNC’s right to operate however it sees fit regardless of fairness or transparency [12]. This opened the door to even more brazen manipulation in future elections. [9] [search bernie sanders 2016 rally sizes vs hillary clinton] [10] [search dnc email leak sanders jewish attack] [11] [search debbie wasserman schultz joins clinton campaign 2016] [12] [search dnc lawsuit 2016 fair primary legal defense ruling] The Pied Piper During the 2016 election the Clinton campaign adopted a risky strategy. Believing Donald Trump would be easy to beat they encouraged media outlets to elevate him labeling him a Pied Piper” who would scare moderates into voting Democrat [13]. The idea was to boost the most extreme Republicans so Clinton could face a weaker opponent. It worked Trump cleared a GOP field of 17 contenders defeating party elites like Jeb Bush and Marco Rubio [14]. But the gamble backfired. Voters didn’t recoil from Trump they rallied behind him. His outsider appeal resonated with many Americans especially in swing states who felt abandoned by both parties. Clinton portrayed as inevitable despite low enthusiasm and narrow appeal lost to the very candidate her campaign had helped boost. [13] [search clinton campaign pied piper strategy 2016] [14] [search trump clears gop field 17 candidates 2016 primary] Silence Before the Fall By 2020 Sanders returned stronger. He won the popular vote in the first three contests—Iowa New Hampshire and Nevada—becoming the first candidate to pull off that trifecta in a competitive Democratic primary [15]. But the establishment struck back quickly. Pete Buttigieg and Amy Klobuchar dropped out and endorsed Biden just before Super Tuesday reportedly at Obama’s urging [16]. Elizabeth Warren remained in the race splitting the progressive vote. Though once seen as an ally Warren’s decision to stay in and refusing to endorse Bernie even after losing her home state split the progressive vote at a critical moment and raised speculation that she was positioning herself for the VP slot [17]. The establishment had sent a message and it was heard loud and clear stop Bernie at all costs. [15] [search bernie sanders 2020 trifecta iowa new hampshire nevada] [16] [search obama calls buttigieg klobuchar endorsements 2020] [17] [search elizabeth warren super tuesday role vp speculation] Part 2 below… Yes. It shut out progressives in a very demeaning fashion again for the sake of big money donors. RFK was in particular extremely popular on Tik Tok with young people but was resoundingly rejected when Mr Biden won the primary. He sought a place in the Biden Administration but was spurned. He carried his popularity with the youth over to Trump. Sorry that happened guys. I guess the progressives had finally had it. I couldnt convince them to vote Democrat again. Now we have Mr. Trump a fake populist. Post 11 What is the end goal of placing entry restriction on these countries? I havent been reading a lot of material recently as I had university finals to deal with a couple of weeks ago. But why is Trump placing these entry restrictions? Especially considering they are for mostly muslim populated countries. Couldnt they send some people to improve the screening for those countries? Here are a couple of things I read this information from . This is a subreddit for genuine discussion * Please keep it civil. Report rulebreaking comments for moderator review. * Dont post low effort comments like joke threads memes slogans or links without context. * Help prevent this subreddit from becoming an echo chamber. Please dont downvote comments with which you disagree. Violators will be fed to the bear. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* The same end goal Trump always has in my estimation. To convince his voters that he is doing what they want. Thats it. His voters support enables him to continue making his play to make himself one of the richest men in the world using the Presidency as a way to do so and establish a family dynasty. Hes already billions wealthier in less than 6 months and this is a billionaire who very well may have had a negative net worth before entering politics. Thats as deep as it goes. If his voters see him doing things they like and think will get them what they want and continue to cheer him on and support him he gives absolutely no shits about whether what he does accomplishes the supposed goals hint it doesnt or seriously harms the nation hint he is seriously harming the nation. He figures by the time his suckers are suffering enough to no longer believe his lies and excuses hell be done. I feel safer knowing Equatorial Guineans aren’t running amok in my neighborhood. The point is for the administration to be seen as tough on immigration in the eyes of its voter base. Thats it there is no great plan and there is no deeper reason other than its an easy sell back home. To satisfy the xenophobic part of his base which is rather large. They feel better. Oddly enough no ban for China and Russia our two biggest geopolitical enemies. a majority of these countries are ones that weve been accepting people as refugees due to on going civil wars political violence or human rights violations. the Trump regime doesnt want nonwhite immigrants and refugees which is why suddenly as weve been closing down our refugee resettlement programs for people from these countries weve opened it up to Afrikaners from South Africa. its all based in racism. Your basic mistake is trying to apply reason and logic to anything T does. Everything is performative everything is transactional everything is done to appease and enrage the base. Note the recent Egyptian bomber? Egypt not on the proscribed list... because they flattered T. Trump is a racist who thinks anyone from a Muslim country is a terrorist or likely to sympathize with them. Dont think too hard about it or twist yourself making excuses. Its just old fashioned racism. Just more flooding of the zone. Constant daily headlines that make the news. The big question? What is Trump doing at the same time thats not making the news? Its usually more damaging. When Trump was first elected towel heads and other slurs sand etc. for Middle Eastern people was common in his voters vernacular. They dislike brown people. To piss off my buddy who has to cancel his overseas vacation. Hes Iranian but a green card holder and didnt want to get stuck unable to reenter the US. In a way every single policy by every single party the end goal is always to win elections. This policy is aimed at the countries with the biggest numbers of Visa over stays or the weakest vetting process intel sharing So the end goal would be to have less visa overstays and to have better information on people we admit. They have dysfunctional governments checking backgrounds is not only difficult but impossible in many cases and many of those countries are full of people who dont like the US. A better question is why would the US want to bring in people from those countries? Its to limit cultural and racial exchange so things stay the same so that the majority struggling subculture doesnt have to adapt. This allows them to operate on their childhood programming and not think very hard. Thinking makes them afraid anxious and overwhelmed. The country is headed to be a collection of minorites with no racial supermajority in 20 years. These are attempts to slow down or reverse that change. Post 12 The relationship between Elon Musk and Donald Trump appears to have broken down. What woll be the short medium and long term impacts of this? Im not going to link to the ongoing tweet / truth social posts as they appear to be escalating in real time but both Musk and Trump appear to be escalating their comments on the other Donald Trump is President of the United States and has been less restrained by precedent and due process than his predecessors. Elon Musk is the worlds richest man and has been willing to throw his fortune around for political reasons. Both can hurt the other What will the next few days bring and what will be the impact on the Big Beautiful Bill and the 2026 midterms? . This is a subreddit for genuine discussion * Please keep it civil. Report rulebreaking comments for moderator review. * Dont post low effort comments like joke threads memes slogans or links without context. * Help prevent this subreddit from becoming an echo chamber. Please dont downvote comments with which you disagree. Violators will be fed to the bear. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Who could have seen this coming! The short &amp long is that we may not have seen the last of Elon in politics yet. Im more curious about their mutual relationships with political leaders in other countries at this point. This tweeting on Twitter nonsense has to be a joke. Musks brand of technofeudalism has no motherfucking appeal with regular people from the Bernie/AOC coalition to establishment Democrats to establishment Republicans to MAGA outside of the minute minority of Rothbardian ancaps. Its electoral poison to be that fiscally conservative in the U.S. while theres a reason why libertarian Ron Paul was on the fringes in 2008 and 2012 vs. Trump breaking through as a rightpopulist simply tweaking the GOPs brand toward working people with moderate economic views which is anathema to the likes of Musk Thiel et al. coupled with reactionary cultural outlooks. Of all people its goddamn Steve Bannon who always gets a chuckle out of me when he professes himself to be of all things a Leninist whos correct in his scathing assessment of Musk being a drugaddled resentmentfueled immature dope. Both can hurt the other Trump can cripple Elon by turning off the faucet of federal money. Elon can’t even scratch Trump unless he can turn MAGA which is never going to happen. It doesn’t matter if he comes with video evidence of Trump on Epstein Island MAGA will either refuse to believe it or ignore it completely. The timeline of retaliation is hard to predict. But here is my thoughts on future actions. Elon Musk is the worlds richest man and has been willing to throw his fortune around for political reasons. Both can hurt the other Sure but Trump could hurt Musk a whole lot more. Musks business model is dependent on government contracts and subsidies. Trump wouldnt need to do much to destroy Musk and his wealth. Canceling contracts and ending the subsidies would tank Tesla and SpaceX. The fear of the other necessary for Trump Fascism is immigrants. Musk is an immigrant. It is highly likely that Elons immigration was not completely legal he entered under a student visa and didnt become a student. The Trump administration could easily use this discrepancy to revoke Elons citizenship and Melanias as well if he so wanted. Would it be legal? No. Does that matter to Trump? Also no. Additionally Im sure Trump would have no barriers to confiscating Elons remaining wealth as well. As the richest person in the world Musk could do some damage to Trump. But he is only the richest person in the world because the worlds most powerful state allows him to be. Take a look at Musk’s X. Since yesterday he has Happily admitted that the tariffs will lead to a recession Called for Trump’s impeachment Rebuked the big beautiful bill” Admitted that Trump and Epstein were best friends And most importantly Said that Democrats would have won the presidential election and House if he didn’t back Trump That’s all you need to know. Elon despite all his flaws is finally coming to his senses. And he’s going NUCLEAR on Trump. My prediction? The feud will escalate to a point that one of them will let something BAD slip out. Well it helps write the ads for Democrats in midterms along with all the other Republican politicians who are upset with whats in their deficitexploding bill. Add in Joni Ernsts were all gonna die sometime gaffe to justify cuts to Medicaid that will cost lives. Majority of Republican voters though are very much follow their cult leader to the end and beyond types at this stage so I dont see it peeling off many voters. If Musks ire is sustained and he follows through with punishing those who voted Yes on the bill in 2026 it will mean less money given to Republicans and perhaps some given to Democrats. Musk may be correct that his money and social media support helped put Trump over the top but whether it moved margins 1% or 5% is in question. The whole thing is crazy. Both are egodriven elitists who care nothing about the rule of law or competent governance and both have done incredible harm. DOGE has been a cruel joke that has legally saved little left our country and government weaker cost thousands of lives across the world and its gutting of the IRS auditing offices will cost us more in the longrun. Trumps tariffs are a big tax on the working class and the only saving grace is that hes caved repeatedly while media reports all that with hopes of a deal spin. Note that his signature trade deal his first term was USMCA was NAFTA with a few cosmetic changes. Its all for show. The bill of course is a fiscal disaster. Firing of Inspector Generals among many actions some of which has been upheld by the rightwing activist Supreme Court has badly tainted every government institution. The bill is a deficitfinanced giveaway to the rich along with some frontloaded populist tax cuts expires in 4 years and gutting of healthcare for the poor although most of that is to take effect conveniently after 2026. Theoretically that would produce a shortterm stimulus but with bigger longterm fiscal consequences which is pretty much how Republicans have operated since Reagan. See the 2 Santas Strategy on that. Its also being coupled with harmful tariffs and a debt interest situation that is worse now but tariffs keep getting delayed. So its unclear what the net effect will be on the economy. I am most interested to see what happens to Vance after all this. He very much was the recommendation of the Techbro Right faction and now Musk is pushing for him to be the president. I always thought Burgum would have been the far better choice for VP and now this issue is coming home to roost. I reeeeeally want to believe that Elon is on some redemption arc and is ready to burn everything down to the ground. I think hes one of those rich dudes motivated by leaving his mark on the world and honestly believed that if he got Trump elected he could reshape a bunch of stuff and leave some legacy behind. But this is literally what Trump *does*. Hes a grifter. He doesnt pay his bills. He defaults on everything and wins anyway. He says things and then does whatever tf he feels like in the moment. Elons take on this is that he got Trump elected to achieve some ends and then Trump isnt keeping with that vision. Trumps take on this is Elon *doesnt have the cards.* Because he spent them already. On Trump. Trump very much sees Elons lack of Machiavellianism as weakness and weakness *must* be exploited or its a wasted opportunity. Thats Trumps entire ethic in a nutshell if you hand over your cards to me before youve received what you came for its as good as gone. Im under no obligation to keep my word and you cant force me. Thats how this game is *played*. I think Elon really did believe he was going to fix a bunch of broken wasteful bureaucracy when he started... because he didnt understand the American system and moreover he doesnt understand that bureaucracy is *good* and *wholesome* in the context of managing a lot of things for a lot of people. Bureaucrats are the timekeepers and the misers. They are the detail documentarians and the frugal watchdogs of the pennies. We need them. They serve a purpose. They have the timehonored duty of taking care of all the tedious things that need to happen so that visionaries can achieve visionary accomplishments without being befuddled by paperwork. They are to be lauded and thanked. They should be rewarded not purged. But Elon cant see that. He doesnt yet appreciate the steady and reliable hands that hold the line. He views such things as dull and unimaginative. Lacking intelligence. Lesser. So the Trump set used him. They let him run around with chainsaws and make a giant mess pulling the springs and gears out of a running watch that told the real time. Was it a highprecision Swiss timepiece? No. But it told the real time. It got things done. And now its dismantled and the time is whatever MAGA says it is. Elon is shocked to learn that the point wasnt elimination of waste after all it was cutting certain people a larger slice of the pie and pushing that bill onto the people. It was *more* waste...but not really. Because what MAGA considers *waste* is any instance where tax money collected from American workers goes back into their pockets or creates value for them. Thats waste. A waste of an opportunity for that money to go to the wealthy. Remember the ethic here once youve handed something over its gone. MAGA is under no obligation to give you anything in return and to do so would be foolhardy. You dont have the *cards*. The big take should be this A president using his power to destroy anyone who disagrees with him. Now Trump has already gone after those who question him....bow down and pledge total loyalty or face the consequences. Love or hate Musk he is the richest guy on the planet and is high profile daily and the fact that Trump is out to destroy a private citizen should send chills down the spine of every American. Cant see it affecting trump that much most trump/musk fans ultimately more Trump... Musk only fans wont be petty Ds hate Musk.. Nothing will change that.. Interestibg thought though Very very bad for Musk.. He should have known hiscrazy stock totally tied into Trump/MAGA How do so many smart” people associate with Trump when he inevitably turns on them and fucks them over when they are no longer useful. We’ve seen this movie over and over for decades now! I see it and I’m not that smart. Or maybe I am? Obviously so many people aren’t. Short term The Big Beautiful Bill BBB is dead. It is being pushed via reconciliation. Republicans still need a budget for 26. This spar will create enough delays that will probably lead to Republicans just refusing on the 26 budget. Medium term it creates space for Republicans to break with Trump. With various demos Musk has a big profile. Republicans in Congress will bothsides this and position themselves as understand Musk while supporting the President. It will help Republicans in 26 midterm. The ones who need to distance themselves from Trump have a path to follow now. Long Term remains to be seen. If Musk goes on Theo Von and Joe Rogan continuing to burn Trump Republicans could lose 79% of the base that just won the 24 election for Republicans. Theres nothing great coming from this battle of childlike egos but if Elon decides to turn heel on the GOP and throw his full weight on the Twitter algorithm against MAGA that would have an effect of some sort though it seems hard to quantify. What happens when Musk tweets We rigged the election for Trump. Was trivial to hack the machines and change the votes.? Civil war? Depends on how bad the damage to Trump is. The worse it makes him look the more likely Trump is to sick the DoJ on Musk for the huge number of laws he has broken. Trump can do a LOT more damage to Musk than Musk can to Trump. I really hope that Elon Musk and Donald Trump take each other out. I think if I had to choose I would want Elon Musk to destroy Trump and MAGA I am gonna bet Musk comes out of this a billionaire still and so does trump..I am going to say that both are criminals and neither will be punished by the system and seemingly Luigi had it right. Short Term nothing Medium Term this gets patched up Long Term theyre buds again While entertaining too watch I dont see this having much effect at all. Short term this is a distraction from everything else the Trump administration is doing and thats it. Medium term Musk goes from being a proTrump shit poster to an antiTrump shit poster but otherwise withdraws from politics for now. Long term there are some whisperings among democrats to see if they can get Musk to fully join the left. Personally I seriously doubt hell support any democrat in 2628 like he did Trump and even if he did its unlikely to help that much. I dont know but can someone please remind me how women are too emotional to be president? The Short Term We run out of popcorn as this just begins to develop. The Medium Term We are out of popcorn while it grows and evolves. The Long Term Supply catches up with demand so that we are no longer out popcorn to snack on while we continue to watch the mess unravel. Donald Trump and Jeffrey Epsteins entire history up to about \~2021 or so On Medium On YouTube Trump is a reputational vampire who sucks all of the prestige and respect out of any who are stupid enough to pledge loyalty to him. His entire career history is littered with people who thought they could use Trump as their personal stepping stone and instead found themselves pushed into the mud by him. Musk thought he was rich and famous enough to avoid the same fate but I think hes going find out he was wrong. The best we can hope for is that he tars Trump on the way down but if his history is any indication Trump will get out of this fine. Ill bet Musk isnt going to be quite so eager to fund Republican campaigns going forward so this could mean that the midterm elections are going to be even worse for the GOP than predicted. Short medium and long term were fucked. Musk had a major part in getting Trump elected. Most everything Trumps doing now is setting the country back now and for a decade. Undoing DOGE wont start for 4 years and even then itll take a while to just get back to 2024 in several agencies. Two stupid assholes working together fucked the country. Two stupid assholes working at odds wont matter much from now on. The damage is done. Trump can hurt Musk more through government contracts which Musks companies depend upon. However Musk turning against Trump and presumably a decent chunk of the Republican Party who have hitched their cars to the Trump Train *could* in turn suppress manosphere and tech bro support for them potentially shifting the electorate a point or two away from Trump and Republicans. I wouldnt wager any bigger shift than that though. But then again prognostication like this is pretty pointless because you cant trust anything you read about what Trump says for any longer than it takes to read it. Still cant believe it happened so soon but they were bound to turn on each other once their interests no longer align. Musk shouldve known Trump was always a backstabber. It was only a matter of when. But given how upset Musk is because of how the bill affects his business interests then that signals to me that Trump doesnt need Elon anymore and Elon cant hurt him no matter how much dirt he has on Trump. Sure he can try but given that Trump is already going after legal immigrants US citizens a handful of court judges and public officials I dont see what kind of leverage Musk could possibly have against Trump at this point. Some Russian officials have already speculated Putin would offer Musk political asylum if shit hits the fan but Im sure Trump would come after Elon before that happens. Elon really was the fool after all. Now we get to see if Elon bends the knee and kisses the ring one more time he can still turn it around despite the threats or if his fate is sealed and his fortune collapses like a house of cards. short term nobody is paying attention to the real issues they are trying to sneak thru medium term they get away with whatever they currently trying to get away with long term we all get fucked. They both come off as incredibly childish &amp selfish. Each is like the other in many ways &amp people often dont like to see in others their personality traits. Traits they wont acknowlege in themselves. Whats going to happen is up in the air. Some GOP House members may want Senate to remove the provisions they didnt know were in there. Senate Dems will try to get them to water down or eliminate some of the harshest provsions. But overall I think its going to pass. Elons about to find out that you can buy everything in the world… But states play on a different level For the average working class shmuck like myself the effect of their ego driven little penissize contest will be the difference between billions of taxpayer dollars siphoned into an ultrawealthy capitalist’s business model or billions of dollars completely shat down the toilet. Oh but dont worry. Even if Elon falls out of grace there are plenty of asskissing ultrawealthy capitalists in the queue to privatize our public taxation dollars. Republicans have become the most fiscally inept representatives in US history. They are literally usurping your paycheck and retirement plan. Is this just theater though? A deal between them to fakefeud so Elon can hope to win the liberals he alienated back? I can’t imagine it would be effective but I can imagine them thinking it would. [removed] Not much will come of it. Theyll continue to bicker like a bitter divorced couple until they make up or Elon fucks off to south Africa. He already got everything he wanted from the partnership so Im not surprised this is happening. Well Elon tweeted that Trump is in the Epstein files so I think you should reframe your question It’s really the early signs of a coming split in the MAGA movement. It’s also really funny because he is admitting the truth that MAGA doesn’t want to hear. This big beautiful bill” Trump campaigned on endorsed in February and literally demanded House Republicans pass it or be primaried because they were talking too long to perfect HIS bill. This same bill will also drive up inflation and the debt by a trillions of dollars while also cutting funding for welfare recipients that most of the GOP base relies on. This doesn’t even begin to mention how the bond market will react as well. In terms of strategy of influence this isn’t really smart of Elon though. As much as Elon hates the welfare state he is full on for corporate welfare because it what keeps his pockets rolling. Trump easily can cancel multiple contracts and the EV credits as well which will hurt his business. Plus in reality Elon Musk’s version of fiscal conservatism is deeply unpopular. I’m not buying any of that. I think Elon is trying to play to get some business back. Trump will again chicken out. Musk owns him. Trump only cares about money and musk has it. Hell do virtually anything for money. It was expected trump have no friendshe’s just loyal and addicted to money and power It’s the season finale of season two of the Trump tv show we’re all watching. It will push the ratings and keep us all entertained I hope Trump kicks out all of Musk sycophants that Musk has installed throughout our government. I think in the end Democrats will fumble all the passes the Republicans are throwing them. The Democratic party would rather set up a TACO truck than do actual work. Ill believe it when I see something substantial actually happen. I hope it does! Im just used to the levels of highschool drama from both those chuds. I feel like trump as usual is the betrayer ran on and pushed for cuts only to spend a record breaking amount. This will only hurt trump and rally truley fiscal conservatives behind a new GOP candidate. This could be a chance to grow support on both sides of the aisle for campaign finance reform! I think I have gotten somebody else involved in this conversation because I am neither in New York or California… The traffic is too bad to be there… The Trump v. Musk feud is just cover for the real Trojan Horse in the BBB Palantir will conduct the most massive surveillance system in the world and feed this information to the government in a complete violation of your 4th amendment rights. I’m not seeing many answers in the replies to your title’s question What will be the short medium and long term impacts be Short i believe Musk will simply carry on trying to build his businesses back up or be replaced. Musk may try to share damning dirt on Trump but nothing substantial will happen Medium Trump’s meme coin has lost value along with Elon’s Tesla stock so I think they both scramble a bit to try and make more money with a new scam or something. Elon might try to actually affect midterm elections. Long Americans may finally agree a bit more that big money should not be in politics. But we will still be left blaming each other. The crimes of both sides will isolate each party as they always have regardless of which party is actually worse for the economy and country. Essentially I fear nothing will change unless people go to prison. It will be overcome shortly. Lefty news is going nuts but the opposition and disagreement will not last long. Get over it. If only we had historical examples of what happens when oligarchs feud with an authoritarian political leader. Short Happy times for Democrats theyre eating a lot of popcorn right now. Medium Trump and Musk make up after resolving their ideological differences. Long Trump proves Democrats wrong about being in Musks pocket. Alternative long term Democrats tell Musk hes no longer a Nazi and woo him back. Im calling bullshit until I see something tangible. Ive seen several influencers who made really convincing arguments that this is a crisis management consulting firm trying to recover Musks brand reputation. If this is true then thats fucking hilarious because all it did was piss Democrats Republicans MAGA and Trump everyone. This is a beautiful and fitting tribute to the best power duo in politics. God bless them like all adults they need to sometimes blow off steam. Theyll be back stronger. https//youtube.com/watch?v=OdqFmoDs4zE&ampsi=a61OYczkhFoLF6ht Considering how many of Trump ex lawyers and executives are in prison and have been charged with felonies on top of his break from Elon Musk should at least show that he couldn’t pick a good person out of a crowd of all good people Nothing. It’s for show. Btw while we’re all being entertained by their slap fest they’re working to cut Medicaid and giving more wealth to the ownerclass. Short term = Good memes. Long term = We never make it to Mars and fail to become a multiplanetary species. We know that both Elon and Trump used to hang out with Epstein. We already know the names. We know that no one will be charged even though they have thousands of videos and names. This is a big nothing burger. I believe they did this because they don’t want people talking about Palantir and how they want to roll out mass surveillance like China here in the United States. Pay attention to some drama instead of the thing that will destroy the United States. Post 13 What are the strategic reasons behind the U.S.s consistent support for Israel? I understand that the U.S. and Israel have a longstanding alliance and there are historical and political factors involved. Still from a strategic or geopolitical standpoint what does the U.S. gain by continuing this level of support today? Are there specific benefits—military economic or diplomatic—that make this alliance so persistent even when it draws criticism internationally? Im genuinely curious and would appreciate thoughtful perspectives. Its short and simple but please let me know if there are any errors in the translation. . This is a subreddit for genuine discussion * Please keep it civil. Report rulebreaking comments for moderator review. * Dont post low effort comments like joke threads memes slogans or links without context. * Help prevent this subreddit from becoming an echo chamber. Please dont downvote comments with which you disagree. Violators will be fed to the bear. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* I can think of a couple of things at the top of my head Advanced technology Israel has some very unique and advanced weaponry tailored to the region much MUCH more advanced than its neighbors mainly funded by the U.S. of course and therefore are able to solidify their position much better than its immediate neighbors and punch many times above their weight. Combine that with a battlehardened military and a population constantly fighting for survival on all fronts and you have a country that is very tough to take down. Israel keeps a check on the U.S.s most dangerous enemies in the region namely Iran mainly because of my first point. Mossad Their intelligence agency while not omniscient is still legendary. One of the best in the world. They are capable of stopping threats before they happen and have foiled many enemy attacks in the region. The intel they have on Americas enemies in the Middle East is an actionable gold mine. The benefits are mostly strategic/military but US influence in the Middle East would significantly weaken were it not for Israel. They are the best allies in the region. They’re a strategic counter to the radical Islamic countries in the region. If Iran was to ever get nukes Israel can take destroy them with no political blowback to the US. Israel has a 550 billion dollar economy based on high tech hardware and software with 50 billion in trade between the nations. It is the highest concentration of tech startups outside of Silicon Valley and most in computer security. Israeli cyber security is so good I don’t even know where to start. Read about the Stuxnet case if you want your mind blown. They have codeveloped tons of next generation military hardware in joint protects between Raytheon / Lockheed Martin and Israeli counterparts interceptor missiles you name it. You know how Jews are 0.2% of the population and 20% of Nobel prize winners? Yeah there’s that. They are a strategic ally in a super hostile part of the world that provided enormous amounts of intel. Take a guess at where you might find the best Arabic speaking anti terror experts on the planet. On top of that they’re an egalitarian democracy and support of them is just *right* morally. They’re an egalitarian democracy with strong cultural ties. They may be a slight liability in our relationship with the surrounding Arab states. But real talk the surrounding Arab states are regressive places whose only contribution to the world right now is what they dig out of the ground. And we in the U.S. are energy independent and moving to greener tech. We do not need to kowtow to them the way Europe does. Strategic reasons 1 hoping to bring on the Christian ends times sooner. 2 we helped create the situation in Palestine so we feel obligated to stay further allowing more violence instead of making them learn to negotiate. There’s definitely more and better strategic reasons but I’m not an expert with loads of analysis. I think we have military bases in Israel but we could have them with others. Its all of the above. Improves soft power in the region supports democracy abroad counters violent and extremist organizations out to persecute a religious minority is the right thing to do. Israel is an important partner to us in all facets and they need our support given the genocidal terroristic behavior of many regional groups that exist near them. With respect this is surely a question that is better answered by research across history and politics rather than the commentariat of Reddit. It will be challenging to sift out accurate / reasonable information from the political viewpoints of individuals on both sides of a very politicised debate. Waiting for a comment about something called Judialchristian values. No idea how thats defined. All the commentary and almost all of it seems to ignore a basic reality the country of Israel is where the three Abrahamic religions converge. Israel the country and government may not be a perfect match for the United States in all aspects but its the most palatable one while maintaining open access. There are still some historically significant religious sites that have limited or no access to outsiders throughout the region in different countries. I think one of the main reasons is Iran. Iran wants to be the dominant power in the region but theyre chiefly challenged in that respect by Israel who we support and Saudi Arabia who we also support. Meanwhile Iran arms Hamas and Hezbollah and the Houthis. Israel and Hamas/Hezbollah/Houthis are duking it out right now with Iran the US and Saudi Arabia behind the scenes. Saudi Arabia doesnt really provide direct military assistance to Iran but Saudi Arabian and Israeli intelligence are known to work together and Saudi Arabia provides Israel with access to its airspace and some strategic coordination. Its basically a US/Saudi Arabia team vs. Iran team going on here. In a broader sense Iran allies with other antiWestern powers like Russia and China. So there are significant geopolitical consequences if Israel would cease to exist. If you zoom out far enough this is basically just West vs. East. its a glorified american military base in the middle of a region that rightfully despises america. this is the actual reason america is willing eager even to lend support and military aid to israels genocide and colonial ambitions because they are de facto *americas* colonial ambitions and genocide is necessary to see them fulfilled. a lot of hay is made over AIPAC supposedly controlling u.s. politicians but Israel has no military economic or diplomatic power that the u.s. does not give it. I believe Noam Chomsky says that the US supporting Israel is much about being able to maintain some control of the resources mostly oil in the Middle East. Theres also the biblical/religious stuff such as the End Times believers and both conservative parties tend to be fundies or go along with that crap. It is all about money. Our politicians send Israel $4 billion per year and in return they buy our weapons and pay off our politicians. Israel represents one of the long term allies in the region. We have obviously been involved in the Middle East for a long time and made few friends Israel has been an ally during the whole time. They are also one of the only democracies in the region. There is none. On the contrary a lot of experts like John Mearsheimer directly argue that Israel is a strategic liability for the US which I agree with. .Complete and unconditional support of Israel is the main reason why the US has no other allies in the Middle East. Before that they had no problem with most countries in the region even with Iran .The total disregard for the war crimes human rights atrocities and the apartheid system of Israel throws the entire Western values argument out of the window exposing them to be complete hypocrites when it suits their needs. This alone gives an immensely powerful card to the likes of Putin all across the Global South. .They spend billions of dollars on supporting an already wealthy country creating a huge opportunity cost for their citizens. .They make every single US soldier stationed in the region an open target. If Israel attacks Iran their first reaction will be to respond by attacking the US bases in the region. Israel is a burden on the shoulders of the US. They take a lot from the US and give back almost nothing in return. The only reason why the US supports Israel is AIPAC as explained by a former US president quite clearly Its not strategic its largely political. The USAs partnership with Israel is diplomatically disadvantageous as support for Israel has pretty much killed the USAs popularity in the region. Though I dont think he ever was particularly interested in it himself its no surprise that when Osama Bin Laden called on Muslims to join together against the USA he used their support for Israel as a rationale. Militarily it doesnt offer much support in the USAs recent wars in Iraq and Afghanistan where you might have expected Israel to be a key contributor it did pretty much nothing besides offer some faulty intelligence on Iraq. The reason for this is that any overt military action by Israel in the region would have been viewed as incredibly toxic and poisoned the whole endeavour from the offset. Economically Israel is advanced but not huge or home to unique resources and doesnt really deserve special treatment on that account. It really comes down to a host of internal political reasons from evangelical religious support to the strong Israel lobby to the ingrained support from the Cold War. As others have said its not a strategic position but a political one similarly to the completely counterproductive Cuban embargo whose sole purpose is to appease rabidly anticommunist Cuban emigrants. In this case the appeased groups are zionist American Jews and evangelical Christians. There is no longterm strategic reason why Israel should recieve such incredibly generous military and financial aid from the US especially as it has repeatedly shown it has no problem with thumbing its nose at American requests and advice. There are a lot of rich Zionists jews in buisness much of it is due to limitations placed on Jews over the centuries regarding their occupations who strongly support Israel. The west sees them as Allies to maintain their interest in the Middle East. You also have aipac which bribes the government to support Israel. The ADL has also been taken over by Zionists in recent decades and have promoted the idea that its anti semetic to not support Israel. Post 14 What is the end goal for Trump’s attack on higher education? I’ve read Project 2025…but what is Trump trying to accomplish? Columbia may lose accreditation Harvard is relentlessly attacked…demands and justifications change? Is there an end game or is this Trump’s mania running amok or both? What about public universities? Any thoughts? . This is a subreddit for genuine discussion * Please keep it civil. Report rulebreaking comments for moderator review. * Dont post low effort comments like joke threads memes slogans or links without context. * Help prevent this subreddit from becoming an echo chamber. Please dont downvote comments with which you disagree. Violators will be fed to the bear. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* To show his authority” he doesn’t like that they didn’t follow his directive regarding DEI. It’s nothing more than revenge. Little man doesn’t like when someone says no. Higher education is correlated with liberal attitudes. Whether it’s from brainwashing or a better understanding of political topics it’s in the conservative best interest to malign higher education as much as possible. Same as every authoritarian. It’s an attempt to control the narrative. Artists academics writers journalists etc. anyone capable of providing a critical challenge to the official line is suspect and among the first to be silenced under any totalitarian regime. Who controls the past controls the future. Who controls the present controls the past.” For Trump there is no end goal other than have them acknowledge him as the one true god and make offerings of money and nubile coeds. For Project 2025 it’s to punish freethinking and impose their version of religion on everyone. trump has no end goal. The project 2025 end goal is to keep the electorate susceptible to their propaganda so they can win despite actively harming americans. Attacking education is conservative strategy 101. Less educated people are easier to fool and vote conservative more often. Higher levels of education always correlate with more liberal stances. Some like to say facts have a liberal bias Trump wants to assert dominance and appear to be strong. Some resent the fact that education leads people to conclusions that they find inconvenient for their ideological and/or economic purposes. Depending on which of those it is they want schools to be indoctrination centers for their own views and project this desire onto institutions as they exist now or become glorified trade schools where you learn how to do a job and little else. If you cant control facts then you have to destroy where they come from. There has been a massive push of antiestablishment figures that have been legitimized by people like Trump and Joe Rogan. The goal is to create their own reality that they can then dictate whats true and whats not. They have to get rid of higher education because science does not support their theories or claims. Studies show that people with low IQ are more susceptible to and willing to support right wing populist candidates. Less educated people fall for propaganda easier. If your population is reading at a 6th grade level they probably don’t have a good grasp of personal biases and logical fallacies which granted *could* be learned from experience but by reading the logic and philosophies of people who have extensively studied these topics and published their findings in peerreviewed forums of other people with the same experiences we can more quickly grasp concepts and potentially add to the body of knowledge. They specifically state that they want the universities to align their goals with the president. This is an authoritarian play at taking over more control of institutions of higher learning. I don’t think there is much long term consideration about the harm they are doing. An uneducated proletariat. Regan started this back in the 80s. The civil unrest of the 60s and 70s were a direct result of the young populace becoming educated after ww2. Did you know Cal Berkeley used to be free? So did many well respected and effective institutions. They put a stop to that real fast when they realized that an educated populace had thoughts about the military industrial complex and stood in direct opposition to the status quo. Keep people dumb and stupid. Makes people more subservient to those in power. I think I understand him. His goal is to make himself one of the wealthiest people in the world if not the wealthiest and to establish a family dynasty and enjoy prestige. I think he looked at Putin and thought he could do even better. His plan is simple. Maintain the avid loyalty of his core voters. This empowers him to pursue the above through brazen corruption of his office just like Putin. So everything he does is what will make his core voters happy to see him do. It is to demonstrate to them and convince them that he is pursuing their interests. Note very importantly this is not the same as actually accomplishing their interests. He need give no consideration to whether or not the things he does will actually work do tragic and irreversible harm be blocked by the courts or get through congress as long as he is seen to loudly and aggressively be doing things that his core voters will cheer and then he can claim victory regardless the outcome. He does not care if he is successful or not so dramatic gestures doomed to failure are preferable to measured calculated progress behind the scenes. Performatively sticking it to elite universities who his voters see as the academic perverts rationalizing men in ladys rooms and children getting their genitals removed who shame them for their privilege with studies about inequity while they all drink Champaigne who brainwash kids into hating them for having common sense and who advocate globalism and immigration costing them their livelihoods is an excellent opportunity for Trump. Impress the dumbest part of his base. He is just hurting the country but he doesn’t give a shit about that. To weaken the United States by sabotaging higher education and driving out all educated people. The country will resemble post soviet Russia in the 90s everyone will be poor except the elite who will curry favor by groveling at the feet of the nearest strongman. It’s been Putins goal since he took power in Russia but especially since he infiltrated the White House. The future will belong to China Those with higher education backgrounds tend to be leftleaning. So when you decrease the rate of population with higher education your population will shift more towards the right. And when the population shifts more the right the less power the left will have. Trump can use this to override the US constitution and try to get himself elected for a third term and grant him more power than presidents are supposed to have. By making education worse and less liberal college educated people will be more conservative than prior college educated people His goal for higher education is its complete destruction. He and the Republicans don’t for a shit about this country they will strip every bit of value they can and leave the ashes behind. The republicans want a country of uneducated morons because people like they love to watch Fox and will believe anything the talking jackass on the tv tells them so long as they are a republican. No end goal. Just ego and smoke and mirrors * **His ego is bruised and hes lashing out in transparent petty revenge ** Trump is a man so consumed by his ego that he cannot accept anyone saying No even when they are well within their rights. Harvard said No and to Trump that makes him look weak. Hes afraid other institutions will say No so he wants to punish Harvard as much as possible so one else will stand up to his \*\*\*illegal\*\*\* requests. Hes just a simple schoolyard bully no strategy there. * **Pander to the most antieducation part of his base ** Though initially just petty revenge the smarter of his advisors then used this opportunity to pander to the antieducation part of his base which is actually a huge percentage as MAGA is as a whole undereducated. Hence the whole *well redistribute those billions to electricians and plumbers trade schools* which is SENSELESS as the government is not giving billions to Harvard to fund undergraduate liberal art degrees. Most of those funds are for MEDICAL RESEARCH ***because research comes from research universities.*** But of course his base doesnt know that. So now they are spinning this into the government will use these billions that we were spending in funding LGBTtheory bachelors at Harvard to now fund electricians which is patently false but his base will eat it up thinking they won something. There is no sound reason to this move on Trump’s part. It’s just Trump being Trump trying to push the narrative of colleges and universities being associated with DEI and liberal brainwashing.” It’s not a coincidence that voters with a college degree are overwhelming Democratic. Main goal is to lower the education and target education centers of the United States. Why he’s persistently attack specific schools/universities is because they fight back He was not kidding when he said I love the poorly educated”. They’re his base. They’re the republicans base. Removing people’s ability to even get an education is the Republican plan to grow their base. An easier to control population since ignorant people are easier to lead they ask less questions like why are things the way they are and how they could be different He wants to brainwash people into supporting Christian nationalism. This was always the end goal of the conservative project since Reagan. It’s really quite simple. He wants higher education only for the ultra rich who politically align with him. He wants everyone else as stupid as possible so he can manipulate them. The goal is to bankrupt schools that don’t agree with him and put all citizens in work camps. All I gotta say is that those universities is how we poach a lot of young talent but now many of those students and most of the international student will go to China and Europe universities all we have is the fame but the education level is about the same. Again we are giving more power to other countries to compete with USA Mao put the intellectuals in labor camps. If you want to run a totalitarian regime you can’t have smart folk contradicting your edicts. The way I see it he’s trying to enforce replace leftwing ideology at these institutions with right wing ideology nothing more than a swing of the pendulum in other words. The goal isn’t so much clearing the air to allow freedom of thought and expression as using the massive funding power of the federal government to substitute right” thought for wrong” thought. I didn’t care for the wokeism of the left nor their efforts to censor opinions and viewpoints they didn’t like beginning during the pandemic and subsequently expanding to include differences of opinion on issues like transgenderism and DEI but the behavior of the Republicans with regard to strongarming private universities into enforcing their own side’s ideologic preferences is even more alarming. Trying to do his homework for him? He wants money and the people who have money want him. Until he becomes useless. He wants to keep people uneducated and ignorant so that they will keep voting for the fascist GOP. Were talking about the guy who proclaimed his love for the poorly educated. You do the math. Lots of MAGA’s subgroups are willing to let your kid die of a preventative disease rather than let science” get in the way of their ability to force their religious beliefs on every American. https//newrepublic.com/article/195801/trumpmagawarsciencedeadly?utm_source=newsletter&amputm_medium=email&amputm_campaign=tnr_daily The end game for Trump is more time in the spotlight. The question is who else thinks the country as a whole should suffer for … whatever they think is actually happening at Harvard. Everything he cut was done so that he could pay for tax cuts for the billionaires 2 Republicans cant win based on their policies. No one is going to vote for them to steal everything and give it to the billionaires. But they will vote for hate misogyny transphobia xenophobia racism etc. and of course all the lies. But those things are all born from ignorance. Republicans must keep America ignorant to get them to continue to vote against their best interests. The less knowledgeable and educated the less likely to use logic reasoning facts and consider the source. They have waged a war on education to ensure the survival of the Republican party. Without the Republican party Billionaires cant continue to transfer ALL of the wealth to themselves. To bully anyone and everyone who shows even a hint of opposition or resistance. It really doesn’t need to be any more complex than that. Gives less money to already rich schools charging an arm and leg for admission and to give to other schools not. The end goal is to destroy America and prevent the working class from having any opportunity to build wealth including having an education or being intelligent. Small dick syndrome I’d guess he is too insecure to let anyone get away with disagreeing with his crazy no matter what To demolish any way for poor people to bootstrap themselves out of their situation by any means necessary. This is cruel and wrong of him however this is my observation. Hes a bully. He enjoys humiliating others. There is no master plan or grand philosophy. The end goal is an uneducated credulous voter pool that Trump and his fellow grifters can bamboozle endlessly. To reduce the population to a bunch of ignorant uninterested and dull individuals that can be easily controlled and forced to slave away until death because they dont realize it could be better let alone how. Final goal is to turn this country into New North Korea. The end goal is to produce a stupid population that will reliably vote for equally stupid demagogues. This issue goes deeper than Trump or his personal goals. What we’re witnessing is a cultural divide rooted in two core principles of human nature that largely shape our the two party political system. 1. Value Earners These individuals believe worth is tied to the value created through effort work skill and sacrifice. Rewards are earned not expected and dignity comes from contributing more than they take. They tend to see less value in higher education believing real value is forged through labor and personal grit. General bases of conservatives not all but most. 2. Value Takers These individuals believe they are owed more than they contribute. They expect returns status income or support based on perceived worth rather than actual effort. For them education is attractive because it promises greater profit with less physical labor. General bases of liberals not all but most. Over the past fifty years the education system and much of our cultural messaging have leaned heavily left. Trump isn’t the origin of the conservative response he’s the figure many have rallied behind to push back toward a worldview based on personal responsibility and earned value. This cultural shift has created a disconnect between education and workforce needs. Only 25% to 30% of U.S. jobs actually require a college degree yet over 60% of job postings demand one and we push nearly all students to pursue higher education. The result an oversupply of degrees limited degree relevant jobs and a growing number of graduates burdened with debt they can’t repay. Between 37% and 50% of graduates end up working outside their field often earning less than expected sometimes no more than nondegree holders. This has widened the gap between expected and actual income undermining the return on investment in education and leaving many financially strained especially under the weight of rising tuition and student loan debt. Trump although a selfrighteous AHole is only the catalyst put into office in the last cultural and political realignment we call elections. The end result whether or not it is the conscious goal of Trump’s policies is to weaken and impoverish the United States of America. One of the country’s major exports is higher education. These schools attract intelligent and ambitious young people who often stay. My father was such a brain drain” immigrant. He came to the U.S. to get a Ph.D. A Ph.D takes a long time. He met and married an American lady had a little American citizen and then Ph.D in hand got a job at another university. He never returned to his home country. These days the brain drain” goes the other way. I can’t help but think that this is intentional. Trump admires the leaders of countries that do not have worldrenowned universities. No one goes to those countries to get a Ph.D. An uneducated public is more easy to control and dupe. So...more likely to vote for him and his toads. I think a few things can be accomplished. 1 Power and control as usual. Pressure on institutions and organizations to submit to you so you can control them. 2 red meat for the base. Knowledge education intellectualism etc. have always been a punching bag for the right. Fascists tend to hate people being informed educated or thinking for themselves outside their authoritarian bubble. 3 Maybe even some pettiness... Trump didnt go to Harvard and none of his kids did either so they. might be bitter about that. All in all the same playbook as always. Find or create an enemy or scapegoat of your partys perceived problems. Attack them in every way possible. The first move of any politician seeking power beyond what hes allowed is always to weaken national education because the less educated a populace the easier it is to convince them to give up their rights or look the other way while others lose theirs. IDK but Trump seems like he likes people to be as uneducated as he can FIND them. I think his main target are religious mental rich enough to help him stay richandpoor enough to think he will really be some kind of help tto them.. He wants to keep people stupid so they can work on the factories that he is bringing back. To further widen the income divide 1 race the human race. People that are consumed with constantly separating and making distinctions with humans only creates barriers. The only thing that matters is what was so eloquently put by Martin Luther King. Content of character. Be a good person not an ahole dont harm others no matter what color or creed. Same as everything else. Privatize it. Sell to the highest bidder. Copy paste this answer to literally all of the questions of why that arent immediately answerable with because hes a racist piece of shit that wants more power Because in most cases. Having a higher education correlates to voting for the Democratic Party. And people who are less educated typically vote for republicans. Not mean just statistics. so by cutting educational funding he’s growing his support base. Which specific issue are you referring to? If its cutting federal funds to Harvard Im actually all for that. Harvard has the biggest endowment of any institution of higher education in the world somewhere around $53bn. To put that into perspective thats approximately the entire budget of the State of New Jersey. People are quick to jump to Harvards defense because its a university but at the end of the day were forking over public money to a multibillionaire institution and its questionable as to why we should do that when theyre so loaded as it stands. Funds need to be taken from my paycheck because 56 billion dollars isnt enough for Harvard? Before anyone says it yes I know that Harvard isnt getting 100% of fed tax paycheck deductions. Its the principle of the thing. The real answer is that these universities have become bastions of Marxism and are supporting Islamism as well this is due to the permeation of Chinese influence as well as Qatari and other middle Eastern money with the express goal of gaining power and influence in America. One symptom of this There are many conflicts going on in the world including in Africa yet the only issue that is the subject of mass protests in America is the Palestine issue. People in the current administration but also centrists or right centrists across America recognize this and are supporting the push to root these influences out of US universities. Of course reddit will hate it being a bastion of leftist ideology itself. Political will. Attacking universities are a great culture war move because those liberal universities are turning your children into gay communist furies so attacking them is a political trick or convenience. Saving money by not giving it to university is just a perk. Trump’s just mad because he don’t have a higher education because he’s too stupid to get one. Nobody could have one. Conservatives play those mental gymnastics games that don’t make sense. But I believe the core value behind all that is ensuring their survival by proving they are the fittest. Zero integrity. This might be the only answer here that will tell it to you straight. The fact is the DoE is a massive failure. What it has done is convince an entire 23 generations of people DoE didnt exist until 1980 to send their kids to college and to over invest insane amounts of tax money to a department that made public education WORSE. Globally we are losing to China and India. Our kids are dumber now than ever before. Degrees mean nothing nowadays. And we have an entire generation of kids with high debt useless degrees and no real work skills. You almost have to ask why WOULDNT he get rid of it. It costs $250 billion just so our kids can be dumber before DoE and they get stuck with all the debt. It’s a system that makes zero sense. Academia pushes a pragmatic approach to education and that goes against his antiwoke agenda/rhetoric. It’s about suppression of the truth hence why they’re using language that demonizes those who are educated as well as those who speak out on the nonsense. Radicals” He’s also pandering to a niche group of his supporters you know who I’m talking about There isnt one. Its just Trump attacking the people that his base hates which is how populism works yes all populism Elite universities such as Harvard and Columbia are where all of the out of touch culturally avantgarde smug elites that most Americans loathe are produced. This was accelerated over the last decade as university leaders decided it was also their job to be part of the #resistance and in doing so fostered an environment that engaged in such aggressive viewpoint policing that pushed anyone who didnt consistently stay within their brand of elitist progressivism or at least go a long with it without challenge got chased out of these professions even for minor infractions. There is a reason he is going after Columbia and Harvard and not the University of Chicago and Washington University. The universities that mostly stayed out of the culture wars and #resistance politics arent getting his focus. Its specifically the institutions that got way too interested in being participants in social change. Throw in the last two years in which after a decade of anyone engaging in wrongthink or being guilty of socalled microaggressions getting fired or sent to ridiculous sensitivity seminars they repeatedly refused to do anything about rampant antisemitism and harassment of Jewish students. Not to mention blatant support for terrorists and terrorism in some cases The hypocrisy was so obscene that it made them a really convenient target. There is a reason that even Bill Maher of all people refers to them asshole factories and gets laughs from his often quite liberal guests. Everyone is sick of their shit to some extent. This is not to defend what Trump is actually doing. The cuts to research and his draconian attempts to control universities through the power of the state are terrible and in many cases blatantly against the spirit of the Constitution. But there is a reason that he is doing it outside of Republicans want to make everybody stupid. And there is a reason that it will have no real downside on his popularity like the tariff nonsense did. Conservatives have largely lost or have been losing for decades the culture wars. Sure there are year to year and administration to administration fluctuations but the pendulum ultimately swings towards more progressive social norms and mores especially after the 1960s. Winning elections has only slowed this progress but each generation is more liberal than the prior generation. This makes ensconcing these progressive norms into laws and institutions easier and more difficult to remove them once they gain a foothold putting conservatives on the defensive. Conservatives are aware that they may win individual battles but are losing the war so to speak. So they are going on a multipronged offensive attempting to not only swing the pendulum towards conservativism or a certain brand of conservativism but also weaken the ability of the pendulum to swing back the other way. There are a few institutions that are important here the Federal beuracracy legal/constitutional norms around separation of powers and higher education. The first two largely slow the speed of the pendulum and limit how far it swings in a given direction. Higher education is the wellspring of progressive or liberalizing thought. Higher education is linked to more progressive or less traditional more permissive views and more and more young people are choosing higher education. This will only increase as jobs in the US require higher and higher levels of knowledge and skill. If the liberalizing of American culture is the snake then higher education is its head. I wouldnt go as far as saying they want to kill the snake. But they do want to defang it. So they are going after the biggest most fearsome snake and mounting its head on a pike as a warning to all the others. By targeting Ivies it makes him seem like he’s against elitist universities and paints him as a champion of the every day American” who doesn’t attend Harvard. It’s likely popular among his base/among people that don’t even know anyone that has attended an Ivy League. It’s also probably to flex his muscles a bit and show that he can make these universities bend to his will a bit. In achieving that his ego will get even larger Because its an institution currently controlled by the left and he wants to push academia back to the right. Its not any more complicated than that the same thing was done by Orban. Trump doesnt have an end goal. His plan to reform academia doesnt make sense and it is actually going to *help* the Democratic Party by eliminating a nasty oldfashioned identitybased politics that resulted from 20 years of liberal social engineering experiments soon to disappear altogether. If Trump had any brains he would have left all of that monstrosity in place because the voting public hates all of it and the cadre of elite liberals these places were pumping out were so out of touch with regular America they could never focus on real solutions that might win them elections. The DEI ideology was actively killing Democrats and Trump is going right after its crimson heart. So really it is just petty revenge. Maybe a bit of unforced error never interrupt your opponent when he is in the midst of a mistake but probably also brings a lot of moderates into the Republican fold who just dont want to live in a hyper tribalized America. Combine that with a little manufactured TikTok outrage about Gaza gEnOcIdEs! and its pretty easy to convince Gen Z to stay home come election time. That means Democrats have to drive the vote among the elderly already the Dems are the nursing home party but this is now their most reliable voting base or continue down the path of identity politics to win primaries where young people and minorities insist on it even if they keep losing elections. Welcome to 19801992 though most Redditors wont be familiar with it that is where we are. Hopefully we are out of the wilderness by 2036 or so. Not sure Trump really cares about making an enduring Republican majority but he has pretty decent political instincts and sees something crazy and called it out as such more than can be said for Hillary Biden Obama and basically everyone else in the Democratic Party so terrified of being called a bigot that they embraced it and ran with it right off the cliff. Maybe Trumps end goal is just to get Vance elected too? There is known to have a left tilt off the self perpetuating kind right wing academics are not promoted or given tenure at the same rate and have sjakk chance to get to leadership roles. In a democratic system power should come from the electorate so concentration of power by nonelected politicallytilted groups like academia is undesirable for anyone with central or right wing views So I would assume the goal is weaken academia or force it to be unbiased so something in between To not require tax payers dollars to fund it and why should we as tax payers? If you’ve been in college in the last decade you already know that higher education is a joke. Access to federal student loans have allowed colleges to charge astronomical tuition rates and they’re so invested in keeping people in school so they can keep taking in tuition that they’ve completely sacrificed the integrity of the academic process to make sure that everyone passes. Which derivatively means that you don’t learn a whole lot of relevant material. It was bad when I went to undergrad and it was even worse when I got my graduate degree everyone got their diploma even people that outright failed. All they do now is make participation 60% of your grade and it becomes this huge fudgeable number. Not a political statement but it’s about time someone knocks the education system down a peg. The real goal is to try and dewoke the universities. and I dont mean woke as in aware of social injustice i mean woke as in pushing social Marxist ideas The goal which will fail is to stop universities from politically indoctrinated to the left. to stop universities from pushing students to hate the right and to hate the US. It wont work. academia rejects the idea that its flawed and they will view the political attack as proof they are right to be anticonservative . but thats the actual end goal. its not an attack on education itself but the flaws in our education system. \ actual right of center person. Harvard and Columbia have been openly violating students civil rights for a long time. Via illegal race/gender discrimination Harvard lost a Supreme Court case on this and by not protecting students against blatant antisemitism and protestor violence particularly in the case of Columbia. These elite institutions seem to believe that laws dont apply to them. But they are learning otherwise. He’s trying to undue decades of Russian and Chinese influence to undermine the country. Post 15 Is JD Vance the next Trump? Will MAGA survive after Trump’s second term ends? JD Vance the current vice president of the United States is the overwhelming favorite for the Republican presidential nomination in 2028. Some will say that its too early for speculation but Vance not only holds a commanding lead over his potential opponentshes perfectly positioned to secure the nomination especially with his ties to Donald Trump. But who is JD Vance really? We have no idea. So far all hes done is support Trump. From all I can tell hes going down the path of milking Trumps success and turning it into his own. Then comes the MAGA movement. Can MAGA survive without Trump? There are countless Republican voters who either dont vote downballot or at all when Trump isnt at the top of the ticket ex. midterm elections. Who will these voters turn to next? Is it JD Vance the apparent heir to Trumps legacyor someone else? . This is a subreddit for genuine discussion * Please keep it civil. Report rulebreaking comments for moderator review. * Dont post low effort comments like joke threads memes slogans or links without context. * Help prevent this subreddit from becoming an echo chamber. Please dont downvote comments with which you disagree. Violators will be fed to the bear. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* No. Trump is likely the end of the GOP in its current form. Trump is basically a meme president that got out of control. JD Vance has the personality of a flat tire baking in the sun of a desert. MAGA is a textbook cult of personality. Its only tenet is to support Trump in anything he wants to do. And Trump will presumably endorse Vance in 2028 as his successor. Vice Presidents are typically the heir apparent. But cults of personality are nontransferable. The people who stormed the capitol to keep Trump in power arent going to storm a voting booth for Vance. So even if Trump gives his full support to Vance MAGA dies with Trump. It’s hard to state what a charisma void that POS is. In that sense he’s a lot closer to a DeSantis than Trump. For all that I loathe Donald he does have a certain type of charisma honed over 50 years. JD underperformed in his own Senate campaign in Ohio for context. He’s not some great politician or anything. It depends did JD say thank you to Trump for his current role? And is he currently wearing a suit? These are the hard hitting questions that makes or breaks you. He does this thing in interviews where he keeps saying the interviewer’s name over and over like it’s a trick he learned in a business seminar. Drives me fucking insane. He and Marco Rubio have the same problem potential successors to a movement that isn’t their own. They’re both acolytes of the intellectual wing of the Republican Party so the language and syntax of the populist rhetoric doesn’t come naturally to them. They try to do MAGA drag and it sounds like they’re reading a script. Four years is a long time and anything can happen but if they run the Trump playbook I don’t think it’ll work out for them. He doesnt have an ounce of the charisma Trump does. He spent the entire last campaign playing La Fou to Trumps Gaston. While there might be a Trump replacement out there Im not sure it could be. Most likely is JD will get the nod but hes going to have to put together a very different coalition to get elected. Going to offer a counter as a keyboard political expert… Does he need to be? 1/3 of the nation is convinced Democrats are Satan. So anyone that stayed loyal to Trump will get their vote. That leaves the MAGAlicans with only a 1/6th of the electorate to convince. That number may be increasing small if everyone buries their heads and stops looking at cause and effect like they did in ‘24… Add an increasingly friendly media environment podcasts X Fox… it is not terribly hard to imagine a Vance Presidency. We don’t even have to add voter suppression the SAVE act type provisions going on at all levels of government and a friendly court. No one is the next Trump. Anyone who’s tried to be the next Trump has failed miserably. I don’t think anyone else can command the MAGA base like Trump. Vance in particular is a charisma void. Presuming hes still alive Trump will run again in 2028. And I dont see anyone stopping him. Presuming he dies it will literally be someone from TV. The part of Trump that people never understand is that hes famous from a TV show about how hes really good at business. The average American especially Republican has had their brain so completely fried by a combination of psychotic propaganda and literal lead poisoning that they need to have seen someone on a TV show before they will respect them. But who is JD Vance really? We have no idea. So far all hes done is support Trump. From all I can tell hes going down the path of milking Trumps success and turning it into his own. We know exactly who he is. Hes propped up by Peter Thiel and Curtis Yarvin. Hes here to fulfill their personal agenda. He has no beliefs of his own only what they have fed him. He also has the charisma of a sack of wet mice. No and yes. Trump for popular because hes a reaction to liberal and general conservative failings and the Neoliberal order dying and destroying much of Americas power. The first thing to note is that America has bled affluence dominance and its quality of life has stagnated. Places like Africa have turned away from Americas ideals of globalism and the people of America have been worse off because of these decisions. The other thing is that the Democratic party has become far more social since obamas first term. Its not uncommon for people who voted for Trump or who didnt explicitly support the DNC candidate to be called racist bigoted etc. the Democratic side of political commentary has continuously used Moral blackmailing to win support. The GOP has continued to follow the same old conservative views of people like Reagan views which started the Neoliberal order. An order perceived to have screwed Americans. Trump won because of this dissent. People didnt like the way stuff was and so supported in mass the opposite. A paleoconservative billionaire who didnt mince words and said exactly what he wanted to do every time. A protectionist populist who is against globalism and is the opposite of PC. JD wont have that because he cant have that were currently in a transition of political and economic theory and Vance doesnt stand far enough on his own to stand out. Hes to trump what Biden was to Obama a guy who was there and might get support based off that. No onto the GOP failing. Anyone saying that is coping lol. The Democratic party is . What it really comes down to is if people have better lives in 4 years. Trumps tarrif and protectionist gamble will either pan out or it wont. If it pans out the GOP will get a ton of support and have near complete control for 2 or 3 terms until people think they fucked up. If it fails the Democrats will have near complete control for 2 or 3 terms until People think they fucked it up. Thats all that really matters for votes are peoples lives better at the end of the term. You have to ask yourself Can JD Vance deep throat a mic in front of a maga crowd without any blowback? Can JD Vance just stop answering questions during a campaign event to do the double jerkoff dance? I don’t think so. The magic of Trump with the maga crowd is that he is a master con artist and they are all suckers. Trump absolutely knows how to confidently tell maga crowd what they want to hear then say the complete opposite with absolute confidence the very next maga crowd. The Center can’t hold once the charismatic leader is gone. What you’ll have instead is several pretenders to the throne that will each claim a fraction of the fan base. Jr Rubio Vance and probably several others. Each in turn will vilify the others. And the whole house of cards will fall. Likely someone new will come along and seize the reins.. but it won’t be anytime soon… No besides what everyone else is saying even if Vance was charismatic he still wouldn’t fit the profile. Others have tried filling in the successor” role and failed even when 150% trying to pander to the maga crowd See Desantis Trump’s family would have a shot if they weren’t all so disgustingly subservient. MAGA can’t see themselves in them and because they demand loyalty out of them being subservient is not something they can lie to themselves about just like they hide their head in the sand about Trump’s subservience to dictators And that is a problem that affects every single active politician in the GOP that they have to be 100% loyal to Trump but to be his successor they need to appear to be 100% independent the top dog. So almost no one in currently in politics can aspire to replace Trump until Trump is dead not gone dead. And then you have the qualifications it must me a self made” Rich and Successful” alpha dog” that can talk to working class without appearing condescending and of course share all their bigoted ideals. And yes I know every thing I said in quotation is questionable about Trump himself but the point is that a successor must appear to be that to the maga crowd. Musk would have a chance if he could be president legally so far he can’t otherwise there will not be able to find a successor until Trump is dead. But who is JD Vance really? We have no idea. lmao you could read his book or watch the nflx movie Reddit has been wrong on this question and all questions about Trump. You won’t find what you’re looking for here… The biggest concern to have is not that someone will take up the maga mantle. That itself will be a crabsinthebarrel fight between soulless sycophants who only rose via loyalty to Trump. There is no maga it’s just Trump. Remove him and they have nothing. No the real concern is who the democrats push forward as their pick. The election at this rate is likely to go strongly in the lefts favor after just six months of floundering but that runs the risk of allowing a very bland corporate dem yet again to come in and change nothing. It will take exceptionally strong leadership to right the country’s path and that needs a populist from the left to actually pull America away from the fascist wing of the right. I think alot of people on here are gonna be blindsided 2028 is probably gonna be alot closer than many here think underestimate Vance at your own peril. Tbh it really comes down to who the Democrats nominate theres some candidates I could see winning or losing but the ball is in their court. As for MAGA in general though thats not going away anytime soon thats just how the Republican party is now. Trump will be the nominee in 2028 unless hes dead and even then theres a decent chance theyd deny hes dead and run him anyway. **Heck no.** Vance is widely *loathed* by everyone. If Trump passes away Im 95% certain the House and Senate will vote to replace him with someone else. And no Maga will not survive Trump. Trump is a singular cult like figure and without him many of his supporters wont vote or even care what happens. They only follow politics because of him. There will be several heirs to his regime but none of them have his particular brand of hateful ignorance and nonsense that his core supporters have come to expect. The Republican party will immediately pretend He never existed after hes gone. His craziest supporters might well have to be stopped by the national guard and the police because they wont go quietly. Trumps movement like Hitlers and Putins... will die with him. The signs are already appearing that his coalition of the ignorant the bigoted and the self interested are beginning to break apart. He’s definitely being illmannered and insufferable but he’s not the next Trump. The MAGA cult will not accept anyone not named Trump as the great one’s successor. JFC… his charisma doesn’t matter. He’s a true believer in project 2025 which specifically calls for the subversion of all representative government. If Trump dies tomorrow things get even scarier. It’s president Vance for life. Vance was chosen because hes spineless and will do as hes told unlike Pence who certified the 2020 election against Trumps directive. He may be the next president but he wont be in charge. And thats what the MAGA machine wants. But really? I think were getting Stephen Miller. For the next 20 years. Youre missing the point. The point isnt to find a new charismatic figurehead. The charismatic figurehead is just paving the way for Stephen Miller fascism to take over. The sycophants dont need to approve anymore once power is consolidated. If MAGA could survive without Trump they’d have ditched him by now. There’s more than enough about his actions to suddenly care about and claim was always enough to remove him from office. The whole point of the blitzkrieg dismantlement of the administrative state is to entrench enough goons in the federal government to be able control everything regardless of who the president is and to get it done before Trump strokes out or has some other visible health episode that brings the whole circus down. Vance is the most psychopathic destructive and vengeful version of the Orange Cheetoh. If he become in president he will do the same thing to this country that he did to the Pope Francis 1 million times worse. No because Vance is a dweeb. He has no charisma and lacks the ability to talk to people just like desantis or Cruz. He may very well win the nomination on riding trumps coattails but it’s a massive shift to go from trump to a smarmy debate bro larping as this tough Midwest guy No. I think that the MAGA era ends with Trumps second term and the GOP will enter the unknown of who the next big influence will be. Vance? DeSantis? Hell Brian Kemp or Glenn Youngkin might even run in 2028 Whoever comes out on top after Trump will have to forge their own movement. Yes the Republican Party will still be there in 2028. Vance is almost guaranteed the nomination unless something astounding happens in the next 3 years. The Republican Party will be a big freeforall after Trump’s term ends. JD Vance will be under attack constantly by his opponents from both parties if he tries to act MAGA or like Trump bringing up his past when he was bashing Trump. Just because he’s the VP now doesn’t mean anything. No way it survives. Even Trump cant stand Vance. MAGA crumbles as does the Republican party for supporting it. Doucebags. JD Vances only reason he was chosen was because the signage from Pence to Vance was cheaper. Its too early for accurate speculation but its fun none the less and I agree Vance will get the nomination. If the migrant / border policies have good support in 2028 and the economy is doing well Vance wont even have to pivot away from what Trump did or say what he would do differently. But that doesnt mean he wont revert to a more traditional republican attitude once in office. He was only in the senate for 2 3 years? I think 4 years at trumps side could mold him as more of a MAGA style republican versus a traditional one what ever that difference actually means. I guess being less tied to policies on the website no matter what outcome they have on the us and for elections free trade abortion ? Vance is a cardboard cutout of a human being. I didn’t like him before he became VP and I don’t like him now. His book is an odious ballad of punching down. He just exudes slime like no other. He has no charisma. If the GOP lets him front them they’re fucked. Looking back at history the sitting vice president probably has a good chance at securing the nomination but will likely go on to lose in the general election. Unless the president dies in office the vice presidency is generally a political dead end. Their chances get much better if they succeed to the presidency upon the death of their president and then run as the incumbent president. Trumps kids will try to piggyback off their father but they will likely be met with a big fuck you MAGA is dead after Trump. Trump only knows how to campaign. And he’s good at it. He was a TV star. JD Vance will not win a general. This is what happens. Trump wins and sucks as president. We only forgot how shitty he was not me but the others We rush to vote in a Democratic next because we are so disgusted. No GOP has a snowballs chance for 2028 unless they grow balls now and turn from Trump now. No I don’t believe he is After Trump it’s hard to know where things go from there to be honest and I’m not one to speculate on it because after Romney who would’ve expected Trump? Who would’ve expected Obama? The truth is how well republicans or democrats do in the next election is how this Trump administration goes and who the Dems/Republicans place to win the hearts and minds of the American people No because Trump is a cult of personality while Vance has no personality whatsoever. At most MAGA will hold on as a movement initially but it will be a slow decline as several potential leaders clash with each other and their followers start to splinter off. Do you all think it’s possible Musk helped rigged the voting machines? If he comes out and says something like that took place will everything Trump has done be reversed? Maybe I’m just wishful thinking. I feel like JD Vance would turn on MAGA not conservatives if that makes sense In the way he turned from anti Trump to pro Trump. Idk if he is genuine about his stance on most things with Trump or if he is just saying what he &amp GOP wants to hear. Vance from being the serving Vice President is the normal and expected choice for next nominee. I think he should just be himself and let the people and the party see who he really is. I don’t think any of them have Trumps Charisma. He’s an entertainer by trade. Trump has a sort of charisma that appeals to a certain segment of the population. He also has the reputation of being a business guy that appeals to some marginally attached voters. Vance does not have much to offer either of those groups. The former are Trumps base the latter are a small but important group because their turnout makes the difference between winning and losing. I suspect that GOP turnout for the presidential election will drop significantly in 2028 as many of these voters sit it out. The next candidate will still get a fair number of votes due to the R at the end of their names but those votes may not be enough. That does not guarantee that the Dems will win. But they will have a smaller hill to climb. They will kiss JD Vance ass the same way they did Elon musk just for being friends with trump. That’s the way they are. Im still on the fact he called Trump Americas Hitler. I think that fact tells volumes. I dont know if youve seen Hamilton but I remember that Aaron Burr basically had no standards in it. He would switch parties change policies go against previous allies to get ahead. Hamilton calls him out on it multiple times. Even going so far as to back a political rival to ensure Burr wouldnt win an election. Even if the political rival won — at least Hamilton knew what he stood for. Whereas Burr only ever stood for himself and his own interests. Im about 70% convinced that JD Vance is basically an Aaron Burr like character. So maybe he wouldnt be a continuation of the current admin. But if he thought it was the best path to get ahead? Then he would probably stay the course unfortunately No hes not they definitely will choose another candidate Trump does not like Vance Vance has the charisma of a wet noodle. There is no one I see currently in the Republican Party that can hold the MAGA people. Most aren’t really Republicans they are Trump supporters. When he dies or just steps down I don’t see the MAGA movement continuing as it has. Mr. You promised there would be no fact checking” doesn’t have the charisma Trump does even though I hate to call it that. I think it’s comical how all the comments assume Trumpty Dumpty won’t run again. I ask the obvious. When has Trump EVER followed rules laws standards especially when it serves his almighty self? I mean besides never? The only way Trump doesn’t run is if his Big Mac diet finally ketchups to him. Very few actually like Vance. Hes the frontrunner because hes the VP and gone full cult loyalist but he has zero appeal himself. Without Trump what does he even stand for? Depends on whether the Democrats at some point realize that they’ve dug themselves in a hole and put their shovels down… MAGA cannot survive without Trump. MAGA relies on Trumps pretty unique brand of ignorance to his own circumstances in that its playing chicken with someone who doesnt realize theyre playing chicken and therefore will literally never flinch and thus always wins. No one else has that singular brand of wanton disregard for their own future. We see a bunch of people trying to copy MAGA but in a safe way and they always fall short because they overstep or they take it too far and look like unhinged lunatics. JD Vance has the charisma of a turnip I really dont see him being able to carry any type of movement that is based largely on charisma. JD Vance is an incredibly bright man but he’s also IMMENSELY uncharismatic and will very likely blunt the MAGA movement because of it. MAGA as people have mentioned is textbook cult of personality. Often imitated but can never be duplicated. I sense the Democrats catching onto that and using it to their advantage in 28 Yes. Guys like Vance Pompeo Bannon Romney Tom Cotton Ted Cruz and others are all incredibly wellspoken genuinely smart people who know how to easily manipulate the masses of GOP sheep. And they all favor the same policies as Trump. The underpinnings of MAGA and the GOP thought leaders Project 2025 Federalist Society Koch brothers will not diminish at all if Trump passes the torch. Democrats need to find a way to counter this stuff ASAP if they want to win in 2028. If the Nazis’s survived MAGA will as well. They will crawl under a rock but still be there. Didn’t Biden milk Obama success and turn it into his own til he got dementia after Jan 6th a lot of people including some elected republicans said that the Trump era was over and there was no way he could make a comeback to power like he managed in 2016…well clearly he managed to pull that off. As unlikable I find VP Vance I am biased so of course to me I feel like no there’s no way he can motivate the MAGA base like Trump can” but if MAGA and republicans work together effectively and demonize the usual suspects as they do I could potentially see it happening. Plus Vance seems to have at least some semblance of self control in front of his base he can say the really crazy right wing talking points but on mainstream media he has a slightly more polished version of himself that might make people think he’s not that bad even though he is. My impression of Vance is that he is firm and quite articulate and well spoken. As for his charisma he seems very capable of morally chewing most adversaries and leaving them in a very precarious position in terms of image. Possibly more pragmatic than Trump. If thats the case quite probably a better Trump than Trump. If you added a little bit of Obama to Trump youd get Vance. Bear in mind these are the impressions of a foreigner. Vance is Trumps Palin a sop to the MAGAhats. Donnys only objective to running again was to avoid jail time and now that he won hes milking the Nation for all the graft he can imagine and since Vance cant afford his bribe price Trump has zero interest in JDs future or that of anyone else who isnt a potential donor. I definitely do not think that can be a president. I was trying to see who else would make a good president in the republican party. Trump is a developer by trade. Developers are some of the biggest assholes in the residential industry.in my 30 years of negotiating with them he is spot on for wo I used to work with or against when necessary most of my adult life before that it was scary command sergeant majors who would lift another NCO off the ground by his neck chew is ass and make everyone concerned. Every home. Buikding road structure exists today because developers were able to get $1miioms or billions of investment money with their confidence intimidation negotiating skills lack of concern for their popularity go to war with municipalities GC’s SubsBanks environmental organizations the public then once the deal is done the lots are late grade is wrong they try and work out of doing curbs or ada ramps or mow the lots they still own . To be successful in that industry just think of land man on Amazon. It’s the Wild West still and if you haven’t been involved in something that high stakes and roudy you won’t like him but if you have. You respect him whether you like him or not.popularity is for getting reelected that’s all Post 16 Why is environment conservation generally considered a left or liberal topic? I have no party affiliation. People from all over the political spectrum seem to love the great outdoors! If anything most of the republicans I know are big into camping hunting and fishing. So why is environmental conservation not treated as a universal issue? . This is a subreddit for genuine discussion * Please keep it civil. Report rulebreaking comments for moderator review. * Dont post low effort comments like joke threads memes slogans or links without context. * Help prevent this subreddit from becoming an echo chamber. Please dont downvote comments with which you disagree. Violators will be fed to the bear. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* I think its because generally being environmentally conscious is inconvenient expensive or usually both for business. The right tends to be VERY probusiness and antiregulation. Because Republican politicians long ago aligned their interests with the big oil companies and oil producing nations hence Trumps weird affinity for the worlds leading sponsors of terrorism in Saudi Arabia. Its not just about taking money from them although they do as do some of the Democrats its about having a commonality of world view and similar economic priorities. Republicans spent decades denying anthropocentric climate change was a reality. Now theyre slowing coming around to acknowledging it but still deny its a crisis and insist that fossil fuels are worth the price. Upending the primacy of fossil fuels in our economy and function of our civilization would be a major change in how this country and the world at large function. The wealthy and powerful people who have risen to their station in society through the exploitation of fossil fuels are adamantly opposed to changing the system that gave that such largess. The idea that were destabilizing the climate is a proposition they dont want to hear they dont want discussed and they refuse to entertain because it would mean they would have to change. They dont want to change. Every conservative/liberal issue comes down to this tension between change or no change. The conservative view is always to protect the status quo. And in the end change is always inevitable. Because conservatives don’t actually care about conserving anything. They care about themselves and theirs and fuck everyone else. That’s not a philosophy conducive to preserving a common environment. Because the wealthy and corporations control the GOP and theyre the biggest benefactors of destroying the environment. Conservatives in the US are more hostile and unified on this topic than are conservatives elsewhere. Outside of the US the rightwing populists tend to be similar to US Republicans while the establishment conservatives arent as keen to regulate as are their more liberal counterparts but are also not climate change deniers. As one example Boris Johnson is known for his support of climate change measures. When he was mayor of London he would bicycle to work. For another the center and centerright parties in Ireland have all issued policy statements expressing concern for climate change. Former Dutch PM Mark Rutte was on the centerright and also supported climate change policies and biked to work. But the rightwing populists who came into power after him are climate change deniers. The US unity on this point seems to be the convergence of the business establishment rightwing populists and Christian nationalists. The business establishment cares about money. The rightwing populists are behaving as rightwing populists do. The Christian nationalists believe that they should consume as much of the lords bounty as possible. It would be an offense against Jesus to conserve resources as that would be an indication that gods kingdom is lacking. It cost money to protect the environment and protected environment cannot have its resources extracted from it. This means business interests are loathe to support environmental protections. Businesses tend to support the Right leaning politicians and from there it’s a feed back loop. On a political level because Republican politicians have aligned their interests with corporate America. Environmental conservation is expensive and not good for business. On a philosophical level conservatism is about taking care about personal needs first and the needs of the greater society second. Environmental conservatism is inconvenient. It requires change and sacrifice. Also a lot of conservatives are climate change deniers so they may not see the reason for said change. Because the conservative political movement on the US has been taken over by corporate interests that want to be able to pollute and v exploit the environment without government interference. It seems to be. Which is ironic since you’d think *conservatives* would want to *conserve* the environment. I don’t get why it’s not a universal issue either except that conservatives have made their bed with big business particularly oil and are oblivious to it. Messaging and lack of collaboration at the local level with stakeholders. Just frame this as taking care of God’s good Earth” and there we’re done and on the same page. Because the right are driven be selfish greed and don’t give a damn about anyone or anything that isn’t them. They will happily rape the environment if it means a billionaire makes a few extra bucks because they think one day that will be them. The thing is youre absolutely onto something. At this point at least in America its because thats what they have been doing their messaging machine has been telling voters that environmentalism is right wing and now it has its own inertia. Youre absolutely correct though. Right wing politicians could have chosen to come down as proenvironment. Early days of environmentalism even showed promise to that effect. All it would have taken is a few right wingers hammering home the Bible passage commanding mankind to be stewards of the earth and bam every evangelical is an ardent environmentalist. But that isnt the timeline we got. I think many Republicans are somewhat uncomfortable with the Exploit the earth until the end times position that the party has taken up. Pollution that directly affects peoples lives concerns them as do extinctions and the selling off of public lands. These are topics I think Democrats could make headway on at least to independent voters. But as other posters have pointed out. to those in power in the Republican party doing anything to aid the environment is strictly forbidden. Because common sense and popular regulations are apparently a slippery slope. Because petrol corporations hate regulations and sportsmen see hunting as man beating nature not protecting or conserving it. As someone from Wyoming those same hunters all work in the industry. Conservatives have been paid innumerable amounts of money by lobbyists of numerous industries that directly oppose environmental action. Basically conservatives know that they are actively damaging the world but are ok with it because they retain power and wealth. Its all about the money. Republicans support businesses and oppose anything that get in their way to make money. Including the environment worker safety living wages and the law. GOP is teh party of big business that is why they push coal and oil and oppose environmental regulations. Meanwhile they distract their base with own the libs messaging and culture war crap. camping hunting fishing access and protection attracts both but I think they are more likely conservative things restriction what you can build or buy is more of a left wing approach. the right doesnt like that style of restriction. at least all of that is true for me someone conservative and here come the downvotes I think EVs are awesome solar panels on roofs or creating covered parking by installing them in parking lots is great. but I dont want gas engines banned . let me get there when I can afford to get there. Idk why it’s a politically divided problem. I can understand arguments of not investing too heavily in green renewable energy but i find that its all absolutes right now. The political divide is either NO to any support for green energy or Yes to supporting green energy. I think the debate should be around how much support to give but what do i know. Its a pretty lowlevel conflict in approach and interests thats awfully hard to reconcile without blurring lines. Whats the goal of environmental conservation? To conserve the environment yes but how? Generally its to use government influence to assert restrictions to how people and *especially* corporations can act in ways that damage an ecosystem. Whats conservatism? Loaded quotes about ingroups and outgroups notwithstanding its undeniably about looking to the status quo and past for power structures and that means it emphasizes the ability of entities particularly *established* entities to act and selfdetermine without intervention. So on one hand youve got collectivism telling individuals they cant do what they want while on the other youve got a doctrine that individuals and existing entities with power should largely define whats wanted by doing it. Kind of antithetical when you look at it that way. when I was younger I came upon environmentalism on my own but was happy to meet conservative dads who hunted and believed in the preservation of wetlands. I am older but found that to be a real learning experience at the time It goes hand in hand with doing nothing and being lazy which are the favourite things of lefties Because the right i.e. conservative Republicans like to keep things the way they are as in continue using fossil fuels because they established their business empire. Thats where conserve in conservative comes in not conservation for the betterment of the climate but the betterment of lining their pockets. Because the republicans party biggest concern is typically the economy. Focusing on the environment or even solving climate change would cost the government billions of dollars. Which they often vote against. It’s not that they hate the environment or don’t care about it. It’s just they don’t think it’s AS important. In the UK we actually have quite a few conservative conservationists. Though it’s still probably stronger on the left. Its been my experience that Liberals and Conservatives view environmental topics quite differently. Liberals tend to elevate the topic so that it gains favor over all competing views on environmental pollution. Conservatives tend to debase the topic so that it fails to reach the level of concern needed to address pollution. Both viewpoints come from fringes of political discussion. From the absolutists. We need to address these concerns on a level where the use of facts and investigations point to a course of action that allows for the continued if somewhat restricted avenue of business activity in this country. We should be aiming at a clean environment. But its not helpful to aim at a super clean environment that stops economic activity in its tracks. The devil as in all complex discussions is in the details. Same reason why nuclear and carbon scrubbing is opposed by the left it’s not a problem they want solved it’s a tool to expand government and punish the wealthy. Its because only Dems support protecting the environment over greater profits by destroying the environment. QED The proposed solutions are always degrowth and other left ideas. There is in fact a political market for environmentalism based on ecomodernism. Big business is invested in technology that destroys the environment. Capitalists are invested in big business. because climate change is the direct result of the historical development of capitalism and it is literally impossible to actually address the issue without completely destroying the roaring belching engine of death which is transmuting the only biosphere we are aware of into disposable vapes for elementary schoolers. naturally capitalists dont want us to destroy their system. capitalists fund politicians amenable to their interests and the right wing historically has played itself as good for big business. not that dems/liberals are immune from the influence of our murderers. The interests of big oil aligned nicely with the GOPs shift to limited government and free markets. To be clear environmentalism isnt *inherently* leftleaning. . Nixon signed the EPA into law! So this development is a more recent phenomenon. It crystalized with Reagan and then dovetailed nicely with the AmericanChristian idea that God provides Earths bounty for our use as we see fit was expanded upon by Bush43 and his attitude towards climate change the science isnt in yet! its not global warming its climate change! Oh also all my familys wealth comes from oil which in turn dovetails with MAGAs takenohostages approach to exploiting absolutely anything and everything for immediate gain. because of two factions on the right pro business Big Oil doesn’t like environmental policies that promote green energy because they know they’ll go out of business. so they of course lobby the GOP to be anticlimate change policy anti science folk a significant portion of the GOP has trust issues or is plain ignorant. A lot of them are antiscience and antidoing real research that doesn’t involve looking at Google AI answers. So they don’t actually understand what climate change is why it’s happening and how it’s happening. Because the left only criticizes businesses. They never criticize wasteful jetting around the world for conferences that could easily be done remotely. 1. Conservatives dont believe climate change is real/manmade. 2. Conservatives are in favor of deregulating businesses. 3. Shitty businesses like to pollute to save money. The weird thing is that there are conservation groups that are full of conservatives. Though I doubt a lot of those people really care about the conservation part of it. Like Isaak Walton League. Its a conservation group but the one near me had a shooting range and a fishing pond. I was a member for a couple years. It was nice but I got tired of people bitching about the liberals every time I wanted to do target practice. Because the right wants to sell it to for harvesting resources or to privatize it for the rich. In relation to climate change as its a tragedy of the commons style problem the main solution proposed is to build international trust and goodwill. Since the vast majority of damage from climate change comes from overseas so if I reduce my emissions I want to be confident that most other countries will do the same. Conservatives dont have the same trust in other countries that progressives have so this approach makes no sense to them. This makes them more susceptible to fossil fuel climate denial propaganda. I.e. its easier to deny the problem than change your political views. Progressives do the same thing just for other issues. Meanwhile climate activists shame those who ask what about China shutting down the conversation before they can discuss the issue. So they are excluded before they can start the discussion about alternatives to the trust based globalist approach. There is a clear alternative to trust in the tragedy of the commons. Its consequences. Countries need to be more concerned about foreign emissions than domestic emissions and willing to enforce sanctions against countries that miss their negotiated emissions targets Because environmental conservation is about protecting the environment. Conservative means conserving expanding or restoring margins over other people. Theyre two entirely different objectives but they use similar words. This is why when environment gets in the way of business business being a way for the wealthy to get wealthier and expand those financial margins environment loses. because conservatives only want conserve as in not share power. they have zero interest in the environment as see it only as a resource be exploited or an endless pit to be used as a dumping ground. Because propaganda through media has framed conservation as antibusiness pro community. Anything in which people come together to support a cause is seen at some sort of liberal/lefty communist idea. Nixon started the EPA. My my how the republican party has bought out by special interest because conservative policies tend to be more conservative on the issue focusing on common sense stuff like dont dump chemicals in the back yard and remove dead brush from the forests so they dont catch fire while left wing policies tend to be more extreme and want to impose heavy taxes ban gas heat/ovens/snowblowers/plastic bags/water bottles/cars/etc. and give the government remote control of our houses via smart monitoring systems. too often the left globs onto phrases like capitalism is destroying the Earth” and cow farts are warming the planet”. the right cares about the environment but disagrees on the solutions. because its pussycoded the rights only principle is dont do anything that they think might make you look like a pussy and caring about the environment dos to them. Because anything that is positive *that helps people* ***that helps communities in general*** but doesn’t help businesses and rich people *to exploit and profit over a situation* ***that they probably helped to exacerbate to begin with*** **is automatically a Socialist idea** therefore Communist ***or worse Marxist!*** How dare progressives point out ***what other countries successfully have*** **that helps out people.** Things like ***universal healthcare*** **universal basic income** free or low cost college education *strong unions and worker protections* ***paid family care leave etc.*** It kind of was until liberal celebrities spoke up about it and it became a culture war staple. Conservatives just had to fight them on it. Its not. Conservation is also important for the hunting/fishing crowd and they generally lean right The reason was the Democrat party more often associated with the environment hippy days politicized the environment and used it as a tool to shake down and punish businesses than did not donate like oil. Everyone wants a clean environment but not all want a political EPA. Back in the 1960s when nuclear power was starting to expand environmental fears and concerns were used as an excuse to make further development of nuclear plants next to impossible delays and cost. Had we fully developed nukes back then 60 years ago we would have already fast tracked the remediation of CO2 to reverse climate change since the nuke would replace coal and oil for electricity. In their attempt to save the planet the politicized environmentalist may have destroyed it big hearts but little brains. Now man made global warming which the DNC and EPA helped to make worse is the environmental politicizing poster child which morphed the EPA to the point of being Unconstitutional. Only Congress can make laws but Agencies like the EPA allowed unelected bureaucrats to make laws and regulation apart from Congress. This allowed EPA to shake down political opponents under the guise of environmental justice. They could kill oil drilling and stick it to their enemy. Supreme Court recently decided this EPA over reach was not Constitutional. This Court decision was based a case that involved fishermen and the EPA. The fishermen were forced to have an EPA observer on boats to prevent over fishing. That of itself was not bad. However the way they did it was force the fisherman to pay the salary of the EPA observer which ate into profits. Small boat owners 23 fishermen had no profit and sued. The EPA became a shake down racket based on their own self serving laws. Trump is getting rid of the regulations that were illegally created as well as the crooked people. The EPA will need to play by the rules and have Congress approve each regulation. It is not about hating the environment but hating racketeering. Post 17 Who actually are the young men that shifted right? With the Democrats spending 20 million to discover why young men shifted right it seems like a lot of the effort have been of bringing bros back to the partymore fratty types who like drinking WWE etc. 4 Fraternities were even invited to the discussion they were going to have. Only 10% of college students are in greek life to begin with and many of them arent characteristic bros either. Im also going to go on a limb and say that fratish guys probably arent the ones excited to vote nor they were mainly democrat. So if not the bros which seem to dominate the discourse around this topic who are the young men voting Red now? . This is a subreddit for genuine discussion * Please keep it civil. Report rulebreaking comments for moderator review. * Dont post low effort comments like joke threads memes slogans or links without context. * Help prevent this subreddit from becoming an echo chamber. Please dont downvote comments with which you disagree. Violators will be fed to the bear. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* This was the first presidential election for boys aged 1822. They didn’t shift” this is where they started. Because other demographics get demographic specific policies to issues that disproportionally affect them but theres a universal address to issues that affect young men more. For example Maternal healthcare violence against women laws trans healthcare access undocumented worker protections etc. And thats all cool but when 80% of suicides come from men boys lag behind in the school system men are more lonely and the loss of bluecollar jobs hit men harder than any other demographic then they either dont get addressed or it gets lined up as a broad mental health problem or that education needs to be fixed for everyone etc. Im not necessarily saying the DNCs antiman but they leave men out of pretty much everything. Voting is representation based. You cant assume that young men are gonna vote for you if you dont address any of their problems. Modern masculinity and men are in crisis mode right now. The lefts cultural view of white men is generally somewhere between youre the problem and its not your turn anymore which is understandably unappealing to young men struggling to define themselves. The right on the other hand is screaming that its not your fault its everyone else whos stolen your purpose in life and if men just buy into their toxic absurdity we can return to a paradise that never actually existed. Add on to this cultural expectations that are completely disconnected from economic realities growing education and achievement gaps when compared to women and a social media environment that feeds into our worst impulses its no wonder men are adrift. The democrats need to start offering a vision of the future where the majority of men can feel they have a place and a purpose. Then they need to demonstrate they have the courage and determination to unapologetically work towards it the same way Republicans have pursued their goals over the last 20 years. Men particularly white men are the odd ones out of the democratic vision. A move away from traditional values and toward progressive policy is not in most of their benefit. The message has largely been that they are privileged need to change and should fund/support other groups who are less privileged. I sometimes wonder if shift” is the wrong phrase here because it implies they were further left at one point. Simple answer is they know the difference between men and women. One party says there is the other does not. Another one is one party is telling men to stop being men and one party wants them to be more like 1800 men....aka not soft and weak. Realization of the dream of owning a home is almost gone due to inflation. Celebrating sex in public grosses them out. Because for the last 8 years the Democratic Party told young men they’re the problem that every emotional trait linked to healthy/high testosterone is toxic masculinity”. And because they focus on issues the majority of young men either don’t care about or secretly disagree with. I’m a 22m raised about as left as it gets and almost every single one of my friends also raised left all voted red. We view hardcore dems as emotionally unstable grown babies because that’s how they present themselves. Resorting to violence and screaming at protests how is that compelling? The Democratic Party hasnt done anything to appeal to young men in the past few election cycles. At least going back to 2016. In fact theyve all but told men theyre just not interested in representing them. Their message has been entirely oriented toward women and different minority groups. The young men that voted for the first time in the past decade were faced with a choice a Democratic Party that doesnt care about you or a Republican Party that depending on your opinion does or at least pretends to. Heres a collection of answers taken from this very thread that I think help illustrate the problem Their white privilege isnt enough anymore and theyre angry about it Yeah I honestly feel like a lot of the rejection of the left by young men is people being angry that they can’t just be openly sexist or racist. This is the oddest thread weve seen here in a while not the question but all the replies are strawmen vibes and hurt feefees its embarrassing. I think there’s a vibe that echoes that sentiment that some white men either perceive or experience. A lot of it simply media driven though. Democrats are objectively better for all men and men are a huge part of the Democratic Party. If people voted on what was better the GOP wouldnt exist. Every time racial and gender inequality hits a major sub like this its usually downvoted to oblivion and the but what about the white men stuff gets the top spot. If theyre voting for Trump then Im going to have to disagree with your opinion on young mens intelligence. As my social psychology courses taught me several times over people are stupid. The person may be smart but grouped together people are stupid. The GOP has been taken over by first person shooter gamers young vets and incels. The end. Beyond that it’s mostly the same way it’s always been with men inherently being more selfish dominating greedy abusive etc… That is your main answer to this question and it’s time we stop dancing around it to pretend that these young men’s grievances are more legitimate than they really are. Its strawman all the way down like literal bullshit and vibes. The rampant racism and misogyny that permeates a lot of white masculine spaces is appalling. Well Id say that youre going to have to find a better way to phrase that for the fragile male ego because if you dont theyre going to use it to pulverize you and me politically and literally given enough time. White young men who have felt increasingly alienated by the democratic party and the liberal leaning social discourse of the last deacadeish. Broness is not so much a variable as their selfpercived social worth is. The lower the less likely they are to share the wealth i.e. their vote. White young guys see no reason to vote for a party and people that seem to hate them or at the least they dont want to vote for a party that proudly acts against their own interests Vocal online Democrats are the primary force driving young men away from democrats. You dont have to like it but thats how it is. The party itself or at least its activists are responsible for making things this way. But the degree of misandry particularly online is just far too high for young men not to notice. You have to crack down on that the way you have misogyny and racism or you just dont have any chance. Democrats left young men behind almost 10 years ago and decided talking down to energized voter blocks was a better strategy than engaging with them because they didn’t align with the neoliberal party agenda. They picked donors over voters. How AOC is treated by the Dems really helps illustrate this. She’s more popular by far and yet the establishment dems seem intent on snubbing and undermining her because her policies threaten to tax billionaires. Republicans are lying to young men but they are at least pretending to listen and care about their concerns. That social media is owned by billionaires boosting content like Tate’s is another huge problem. 22M voted blue in 2020 voted red 2024. Raised in a democratic household in a blue county in a blue state. All of my friends were raised the same almost all of us voted red this election. I’m not a hard core trumper and my political/social ideologies would probably put me in the right leaning independent category. In my anecdotal experience the left are emotional virtue signaling grifters that bandwagon whatever morally superior” issue is trending without doing a modicum of personal research or independent thinking. Everything is about race and gender and how can we tear down the evil cis white men. I’m half white and half Hispanic but I just look white why would I vote for a group that thinks my skin color and gender is what’s wrong with our society? I also don’t support strict gun laws regulations bureaucracy and expanding governments. I mean every county in California now HAS to develop a certain quota of new housing per year. WHY? Why do we need our government mandating us to build more homes? It’s not gonna solve the housing crisis because people can’t afford them anyways! I consider myself a libertarian so i don’t care what grown adults do with their bodies or what they own. That being said I think children need to be children as long as possible and this push of sexuality and gender discovery on literal children is disturbing. Let the kids be kids if someone isn’t old enough to drive a car vote move out or enlist in the military why are they old enough to be on permanently altering hormones? I know a lot of people won’t agree with me and this Reddit forum appears to be predominantly leftwingers but I’m happy to discuss any topic I covered in the comments. Its the young men who grew up through Covid authoritarianism forced LGBTQ+ religious indoctrination and misandry in their scholastic doctrine. Most teenage boys seek to rebel against authority and found comfort in the traditional masculinity that seemed welcomed only on the right. With the open use of the internet they could also seek out and learn the truth about various issues that seemed unnecessarily distorted by the left which would only serve to drive the question why would they lie about this? And what else are they lying about? Its the young men who grew up through Covid authoritarianism forced LGBTQ+ religious indoctrination and misandry in their scholastic doctrine. Most teenage boys seek to rebel against authority and found comfort in the traditional masculinity that seemed welcomed only on the right. With the open use of the internet they could also seek out and learn the truth about various issues that seemed unnecessarily distorted by the left which would only serve to drive the question why would they lie about this? And what else are they lying about? Young men that are voting Right are the men that are just Sick. And. Tired. Of the INSANITY the Left now represents. None of you will listen to the full details. You ban everyone who advocates otherwise. You have no possible way of learning hearing or mental modeling what most conservatives actually think. You have only strawman to compare yourselves to or the absolute most conciliatory examples &amp bar the gates to any who would say otherwise. For any who hold genuine conviction they are foreign to you &amp to be barred at port of entry. It is impossible for you to understand you live on Reddit where any people like myself have been ostracized. I have been banned many times or shadow banned &amp you will blame me for it. Ostracization tears at the soul &amp you have ostracized the majority of people. This very sub removes any comments that use so much as terminology outside the Democrat worldview such as 1ll3g@1 @l1en or 1ll3g@1 immigrant which is the actual legal terminology. The majority of America are so far outside your worldview that it is impermissible to use proper terminology limited to language less than a quarter of the nation uses. It would be like trying to speak in ancient Greek. There is no point in me even trying to explain I used to spend neardaily hoping some would adjust admiring the efforts of people like Daryl Davis. I am not capable of it. I still try regardless. the problem with reddit is they thought that banning views they didn’t like would make the people holding those views disappear Progressives are the face of the left on social media and on a daily basis. You may agree with a position here and there but would you overthrow patriarchy and take the means of production with these types? With the blue haired cannabis stench wake up a noon have 20 self diagnoses of mental imbalances and 30 genders one for each day of the month? Youd want nothing to do with this crowd and by the way last time you voiced an opinion it was one of these jewels who came at you will a lot of abuse from a strangely high and unnaforded moral ground. Youd more likely be Well subversion is not really a bad idea but me and they/them definitely wont rub shoulders. In fact I think in the very least they are part of the problem. There is only two kind of people who would sign up for this masochists and absolute psychopaths who would just love to game this system and rise on the ranks and these two comprise a really small demographic anywhere. It’s mostly wrong to think that they were left then moved to the right. We are talking about 1822 year olds this is the first time they became politically aware and voted. This is a generation of young men that the political left reprimanded over and over for toxic masculinity and white privilege for existing before doing anything wrong. The left then explicitly endorsed discrimination of them to hand opportunity to girls and underrepresented minorities instead. This is a group of people that the political left locked in their houses for the better part of two years for a disease that posed no risk to them in order to protect old people so they could continue their lives without inconvenience while young adults peak learning / socialization years suffered. These are kids that want to question authority and rebel as young people do only to find that the democrats were the authority and do no like being questioned which is a pretty major inversion of free speech / thought principals by parties. They didn’t shift” right because they were never left to begin with. The left did that to them. That said there are plenty of men that *did* shift right but they aren’t young”. Young Gen X’ers / Elder Millennials shifted right too. There’s a large chunk of people that are just sick of identity politics and victim culture that’s pervasive in the left now when it wasn’t in the past. Bill Maher type liberals. People like me. We are in our ~40’s. I don’t think adults in their late 20’s or early 30’s shifted as much but admittedly I’m not cross checking that with poll data. have a college degree and are only getting more and more popular. Last time there was that sort of gap it was the reverse and Title IX came from it. Sounds like youre limiting the scope to universities ecosystems which doesnt help anything with this. // Im a woman but I have four boys all in that relative age range and I have a bunch of them that work with me. Theres a fairly common idea that Ds are treating men essentially as a sort of uncontacted foreign tribe which these sort of consultant grift studies dont help with on the strength of vote for us and *maybe* youll be considered one of the good ones. With specific references to this last election Democrats tried to appeal to young/white/ men by among other things 1. essentially forming spaces centered around the idea of 2. Tim Walz whos at best someone DNC staffers idea of the sort of personification of what they think resonates with that demographic. 3. Establishing a 20something whos career to date has been attempting to be the lefts cersion of a MyPillow grifter and railing for all sorts of falselybased unconstitutional measures against 2A as a party VP You royal you here could just listen to Joe Rogan quit overcomplicating things and just try and gather from there considering thats the biggest mouthpiece of the demographic that theyre chasing but they insist on staying the course with the YoungMen are an uncontacted tribe deep in the Indonesian rainforest and we need to convince them to vote for us to be OneOfTheGoodOnes approach It’s very simple Democrats cannot have made it more explicitly clear that they have no interest in representing young men. Every single instance in which women outpace men has been overlooked by the Democrat party while every single instance of men outpacing women has been put in the spotlight. Discussing issues that primarily affect men without also mentioning that women have it hard in other ways would make you a social pariah in the Democrat party. If I for instance bring up the fact that men commit suicide at over 4x the rate of women I am obligated to also mention that women deal with depression too lest I be ostracized from my Democrat friends. If I for instance bring up the fact that women have outpaced men in higher education for the past 30 years I am obligated to mention that men outpace women in STEM fields and that we must push for more women in STEM. If I for instance bring up the fact that social ostracization of men is generally accepted I am obligated to mention that men of prior generations have openly ostracized women. I bring up these three examples as things that I’ve dealt with in the past week alone. I am frankly irritated at the amount of times that I have had to apologize on behalf of all men at the amount of times I’ve been told to step back for women and at the amount of times I’ve seen sexual assault of men get played in media as the butt of a joke. And unfortunately Democrats do not call out any of this stuff. I voted for Biden in 2020 I didn’t vote for anyone in 2024 and I surely will not vote Democrat again until they stop openly ridiculing and mocking young men. Why would I vote against my own self interests? 1. Only 10% are in Greek life yes but plenty more would fit into that stereotype of bro”. They just have chose a different type of social life. That’s at least why dems are looking at what happened. And don’t be fooled we were all very interested in politics and voting. College men paying a ton of money for an education certainly pay attention to what’s happening in the country economically and socially. 2. I’m a man who just graduated from college last year I was in a fraternity and I can say that when I started college in the fall of 2020 the frat bros I was around were around evenly split politically. A lot of socially moderateliberal opinions with a lot of guys who didn’t have economic opinions either way. By the time I graduated in the spring of 2024 the shift of frat bros I was around who started off left leaning and turned out more right leaning by the end of their college career that I saw shocked me. That even split no longer exists it became like a 75 R/ 25 D split. It’s not that most of them changed their minds about their beliefs it’s that most of them saw the Democratic Party as having gone too progressive on social issues and unable to govern competently in general. The dems came off as completely unable to deal with the border correctly and all of us were pissed about the inflation. And more than policy wise We all saw Biden destroy his and his party’s credibility at the debate and putting in Harris without a primary pissed off even a lot of the more liberal guys I knew. And I know this is going to be unpopular on Reddit but most frat bros I was with were super unhappy with the support for Hamas and consequent harassment of jewish students on campus that while not outright supported by or endorsed by Harris came from the progressive wing of the left. I remember having a conversation with a couple of guys in my frat who were Dems in 2020 around March or April of 2024 when the harassment at schools was picking up and the overall consensus I saw was that a lot of them no longer felt comfortable backing the Dem party or at least were looking at trump a lot more favorably. Even most of the right leaning guys I knew at the time weren’t going to vote for trump because they were pissed about Jan 6th stuff but decided to around that time because they got pissed that dems were trying to appeal to both sides on that issue. 3. It’s not just young men whose attitudes are shifting right it’s everyone in the gen Z population compared to millennials. It’s similar to the shift that happened in the 1980s where the neocon generation started. 1960/70s liberals saw the Dem party as no longer the party for them. In general it’s more about how the parties have changed than how people’s attitudes have changed. It’s no longer a liberal vs Conservative Party system it’s a trump populism vs status quo party system. Trump destroyed the Reagan/Bush Republican Party it’s something new. The Clinton/Obama Dem party doesn’t actually have a vision to run on besides antitrump”. That’s not really a platform which is why they want to see why the young men have shifted Whether it is true or not. A lot of well educated decent kids who are white boys feel that their opportunities are limited or less likely for elite schools because of DEI. This also applies to Asian boys as well as their minority status is not beneficial. My son is at a high academic high school in a liberal city. I have seen it first hand. A lot of their moms and some of their dads followed suit. Also women athletes many of which are lesbians are mostly anti trans athletes. They support trans people but don’t accept the premise there is not a significant advantage to a bio born male transitioned to female. They fell violated feel it is unfair again whether this is real or not that’s how they feel. My daughter is a college athlete at a very liberal school in a very liberal city. I have seen it first hand. This may not have caused them to vote Trump although some certainly did a lot may have chosen not to not vote. Maybe still vote D but not volunteer or not donate. This is not only in USA this is also in Europe Because the left is passing injustice and minority privilege DUI policies. Not picking a candidate solely because their gender or ethnicity is racist and sexist. Bravo to those that manage to convince millions of people to systematically make life harder for white men or the native population in Europe Countries are being flooded with illegal migrants. Uncivilised Criminals they dont have western morals women are seen as property majority of them dont work or can hold a job. just a huge burden for society. This is what left politicians are doing they want to flood the country with unauthorized migrants Who tf would wants that? Only way to stop this madness is to vote right because the center is just as useless I was politically centrist in 2020. I became disaffected with democracy when COVID hit and became a monarchist in 2021/2022 there abouts. Any man with a father and/or healthy testosterone levels will be republican today. The modern left is a political movement of single middle aged white women. Instead of spending 20 million dollars you could also go on twitter and ask them for free. Instead you’re asking this question on Reddit. Is the Reddit audience right wing? Would you ask Ayn Rand what communism is? Maybe for critique. Read the comments. You folks have no idea and created this imaginary villain in your head that doesn’t exist. One mistake folks do is lump all the people that are considered right wing together and left wing together. Go on twitter I promise it isn’t just right wingers. it’s actually pretty balanced in terms of views and you’ll notice that on your For you page. Go on spaces titled Trump fans of whatever then go on JQradio 24/7 Go to a Christian nationalist space And lastly go to a Palestinian space speakwithdeedee is a good one What are the differences between all these spaces? Do they all agree with each other? What are their complaints? You may find that we have a lot of common ground. You may also find that we don’t agree on a lot of things. Why is that? No really young men and especially ones on the nadir of intersectional identities least favored by left academia and now AI trained on it are in despair. The rest of men are too maybe to the lesser extent maybe the same. Someone under this post already brought up the suicide gap. Men are speaking in internet jargon blackpilled. Partially due to fairly recent changes in family structure and reproductive strategies and policy just few generations ago people need to be very optimistic about their future to ensure population levels are not dropping. The runaway housing costs and inflation make them behave like pandas in the zoo. In this context men are also going to be much more distraught by the prospect of replacement migration posed as a real alternative to improving their well being. Traditionally not womens responsibility perhaps it takes social pressure and expectations of being a provider to see that the replacement immigrants are not the solution and are going to face the same exact issue upon receiving naturalization certificate. Welcome bro it sucks here. Then there are little things like the rampant injustice with treatment of criminal and marginal elements in the society so long as they fall into any favored identities or just look pitiable enough incident with Daniel Penny being the loudest one recently but far from one and only. The fate of the people that fall out of the rat race is tragic but they are effectively allowed to further disrupt all public. Men generally see that left leaning politics specifically are relaxing laws that criminalize shoplifting milling around while drugged up and hunched over with a hoodie pulled over the head in a sea of tents and garbage and similar antisocial behavior in public but simultaneously taking away any ways they have to defend against it should they still have anything to lose in life. Policies discussed and actively pursued by left leaning politics are the exact opposite of what all men actually want and need. You’re not gonna find the answers on Reddit I’ll tell you that much. But speaking as a young man you’re right in your assessment that you’re not losing out on frat guys who are pretty politically uninvolved and span the range from center left to center right in politics in my experienceactually most of the frat guys I’ve interacted with have been somewhere on the left. The DNC in my experience is losing out on normal guys. And they’re losing out on this demographic because the DNC is not offering anything these guys care about and the vanguard of progressive DNC activists are so insufferable to people who just want to get on with their lives. I believe it was the NYT who ran a piece about this but most peoples’ top issues are things like the economy immigration et cetera— young men are particularly likely to care about those issues because it directly effects one of their two primary concerns which is whether or not they can get a job and build a life. When the NYT asked what people believed the DNC’s top priorities were it was things like LGBTQ issues abortion and the like— things that are very salient issues to the 1% of wiredin activists on Twitter but aren’t that popular with the guy who’s your cashier at Wal Mart. And before anybody says that it’s racism sexism homophobia or anything of the sort that’s pushing young men to the right I don’t really buy that as a endall explanation. Sure it could be a factor but then you’d also have to contend with groups that have historically been considered strong DNC voting blocs who are also more likely to hold these beliefs than young men— AfricanAmericans Hispanics/Latinos MENA groups. It’s simply far too simple of an explanation that also conveniently absolves the DNC of their handling of issues that young men actually care about and of their messaging towards young men. And the kicker is that this study that the DNC is investing $20 million in is probably gonna turn up next to nothing. Part of it is as you said they’re looking in the wrong places and trying to win back frat bros. As someone involved in Greek life that is not at all a demographic which is representative of young men at all. But also because you’re not gonna get anywhere by researching a large demographic of regular people like they’re exotic animals. These are people not aliens from another planet that you should have to research and develop new ways to communicate with. This is probably gonna go down as another messaging failure for the DNC. They are your typical gamer dudes who like typical man stuff like guns trucks and sexy women. Fucking moronic leftists chose to make them the target of all their vitriol online and that transferred into them not voting for Democrats. I cant tell you how many times Ive seen blatantly racist shit about wyt ppl or just saying men are the problem. It is the same exact thing magas do with immigrants and black people. But there are a lot more white people and men than there are immigrants and black people so it does a lot more harm to election results to attack them as a group. I do think a lot of that was astroturfing for that specific reason to anger young white men into supporting trump. But it became trendy real fast for young progressives and women of all ages to do the same thing. Then the Dems kind of followed suit not nearly as bad but they came out and made a webpage that said who we support and literally everyone was on it except white men. Then you add in preachy people like AOC and the squad and its just a massive turn off for young men and a lot of other people. No one votes for someone who says they are the problem and that they need to be punished. The young men voting red are the ones you people spent years demonizing. Especially young white men. Now those chickens are coming home to roost. I don’t know a single young guy who voted for Kamala. This is coming from a 25 year old in Kansas City. I also voted for Trump as well My opinion is that a massive number of these young men were formerly Bernie bros whom the Democratic Party rejected and ridiculed. Dumb move as it drove them straight into the arms of the opposing party. Many of these guys arent inherently conservative or republican. They just want to feel accepted and listened to. You dont even have to promise them anything particular. You just need to say I hear you I feel you I understand I empathize. Youre important to us. And then dont do anything. Just listen and empathize. That shouldnt be too hard. But apparently it was. Ive been a hard leftist LGBTQ/womens rights advocate my entire life. The way that I have been treated the past several years... There has been absolutely zero reciprocity from those people in my personal life as well as online. I have not been accepted supported heard I get shut down and called all sorts of derogatory things when I talk about abuse Ive suffered primarily at the hands of women. Cheating harassment theft inappropriate unwanted contact manipulation backstabbing. Ive been groped by a person who is a member of the LGBTQ community and gaslit when I told their friends about it. I get stereotyped based on my looks and my gender and face skepticism constantly having to prove myself to these people. The irony. The universal blame of all men for the outcome of the US election while completely overlooking and absolving the women who were also responsible. This all has completely put me off of supporting the party. And still I havent shifted right but Im sure somebody will show up to accuse me of it. Im not going to switch teams because my principles and convictions are stronger than that but I have no interest in continuing to fight for people who wont even acknowledge me as a person or the struggles Ive endured. The left and all of their subsects need to take a good hard look in the mirror and come to terms with their own hypocrisy. Consider this during the 2016 primaries millions of college age men rallied for donated their time to donated money to in record breaking small dollar donations an intersectional movement for radical progressive economic and social change. In response the leading establishment Democrats called them Bernie Bros who were toxic because they didnt adequately say the magic words about institutional racism and didnt adequately respect the gender gap so they also hate women. Im not saying like direct cause and effect every Bernie supporter became a Trump supporter. I am providing one example of how establishment institutional corporatesponsored mediaingrained Democrats the very highest profile and most powerful Democratic politicians treat their male voters and their thoughts and dreams. They communicated as though they didnt want to represent men men were too toxic to even consider that they didnt need male voters and even that they are against the interest of male voters. The reality is that almost no Bernie supporters were toxic like they claimed and Bernie had tons of women supporters too. They didnt care they were happy to denigrate an entire gender. I dont think that many men shifted that far right. I think the best thing the Democratic party could do is make a big show out of kicking all the naggers and ninnies that ever said anything obnoxious about a whole gender. I voted for Kamala because I’m a neverTrumper. But if republicans had put out just about anyone else I would have voted red. Why would I ever want to be a part of a party that time and time again has made it clear that they hate me? That sees the world from a simple view of oppressors and the oppressed? And because my specific demographic was one of the oppressors” before I was even born that I’m a part of the problem? I think identity politics is wierd and rather off putting. It doesn’t make sense to me that any group receives special treatments benefits or exclusions. Anyone coming to fix my issue be it plumbing tree work marketing campaign or data center migrations are evaluated by the quality of their work and their communications. I do not think color or sexual orientation matters for professional work. Does this mean if the marketer or plumber is Korean and can’t communicate they will be at a disadvantage yes absolutely. If the job requires heavy lifting men will have an advantage. How you communicate how you work and your professionalism is noticed by the team and by the clients. Anyone discussing sex at work I think it’s really wierd. Gay /straight/ male / female / blue yellow green pink. It doesn’t matter it’s wierd and doesn’t belong in the work place. Democrats have no vision of the future. People including young men are not stupid. It’s obvious what we’be been doing the last quarter century is not working. Republicans offer a return” no matter how impossible that is while the Democratic Party offers… more of the same? It’s baffling that Democratic leadership is baffled by this. Idk... Maybe they got tired of hearing about how everything is mens fault and how the patriarchy needs to come down from the left. Ostracizing a group generally doesnt attract people from that group to join you. Because the Democrats are viewed as the ones that are transgender or blue haired femnazis. What is attractive about that to a young man. I have a lot of work today and not enough time to type this all out. However I think we have 3 drivers that are causing this. 1st is women are absolutely outpacing men in college and in the information age thats not great. I work in Cancer Research and well over half of the Stats people I work with are brilliant ladies. Im talking math undergrad from Georgia Tech with PhD from Vanderbilt. Ive done some recruiting and I just see more and more women in STEM that are highly qualified. Its pretty well known men are having problems in college. I think they need a red shirt year and have an internship or something. It wont solve the entire problem which leads me to my next point and Ive always griped about this but guys we have to mentor young men. Reach out to schools etc and invite them to job shadow or be a resource. Ladies are just straight up being more forward about advocating for what they want. I cant tell you how many internships interviews Ive sat in where the ladies just outpace the guys. Theres this soft skill gap thats sub optimal and all resumes being equal Im taking a chance on a possible better team player. Finally someone on here hit it but this odd blue collar stuff is just odd for me from a culture standpoint. My dad was a pipefitter but he absolutely begged and made sure I never did that. He always said this is brutal work and I want something better for you. Im not saying trades are terrible and honestly I do fix my HVAC systems but this coded talk that anything trades isnt manly is odd. I mean I cant weld like my dad but Im not terrible. My point being Im not going to be the guy to say skill trades are the only route for guys. Im not going to look down on it either I think its a good route for a lot of people. Remember the Black women is speaking!? Why would anybody vote for something like that? Saying something like this implies that you are entitled to something just because you are of certain color skin or gender its mind blowind how the left keeps doing this stuff and then they cant comprehend how is it possible that they lost The ongoing culture war is largely responsible as far as I can see . If someone is constantly cast as a villain by one party and the other party is prepared to be polite to them and at least pretend to care then you can probably guess who they will side with. A bit over a decade of low key misandry is coming back to bite the American left on the ass and here is the funny thing about this low key misandry it is so normalized that they dont see it for what it is . If you want to actually find them open ig reels and you will see exactly where they are. none will be on reddit because you get banned very often for having those opinions but just because you banned them doesnt mean they dont exist. they simply moved to other spaces. Im sick of the pandering of the left. They seem to believe everyone is a victim unless you are a straight white male. Aint nobody got time for that nonsense I feel like masculinity has been so weaponized in the recent years. Before I say anything I’m A. not a pick me” B. didn’t vote for Trump I voted for Kamala Harris in this election and C. this is just my observation as a gen z woman in the US. From what i observed the left have been very divisive in the recent years… especially in online spaces where more young people young men are at. If you screw up once you are canceled and exiled. Humans by nature are social and when you are attacked” and left out you feel very lonely. So resentment gets built and young men see older men who understand their feelings of being left out and they say hey this is an issue of the evil left blah blah blah…” Dems alienated a significant chunk of men these last couple campaigns. They dont need to spend $20m they need to accept that their messaging is pushing that demographic further away. want to know how to bring men back? Dont be so anti trad. Its alienating. Focus on workers issues. Masculinity is not toxic. Being an asshole is. The democratic party as a national brand has a savior complex that is a turnoff to men and anyone moderate Im gonna go out on a limb and suspect it was the silent majority of straight white men who didnt like being labeled toxic and that the color of their skin was the root of all evil. Most people I know werent motivated by the candidate so much as they were motivated to push back on the discourse that asserted they were racist homophobic and overall evil for doing nothing other than being born the way they were liking [biological] women and wanting to live life without being defined by identity/gender politics. it’s thinking like this essentially guaranteeing liberals don’t win again anytime soon i dunno The leftists cant imagine the idea that theyve actually supported the villianization of men at a social level with their privilege claims Well I mean when the Democratic Party spends years demonizing white men who make up a large portion of the population it’d make sense for them to switch to the Republican Party… When the dems/libs tell men for approximately 1015 years they’re toxic and shouldn’t emulate masculine role models…there’s gonna be a problem when that group who grew up with that messaging ages into voting. It’s very simple but people overthink it. What would you feel like if someone told you that you suck your entire life? Well according to democrats me a white young man is a sexist a racist I am the problem. We should actively get rid of people like me. Tear down statues like me. Teach people in schools that people like me are horrible. Like on the view when they were discussing about dems spending 20 million to get back young men they said we should spend money teaching them not be sexist and the audience clapped???? Like what obviously some are but most of us arent. Also the last 5 years they have just became ridiculous they have been shitting on masculinity calling it bad its not! Like apparently going to the gym makes you a far right bigot!!!! It seems like they want absolutely nothing to do with me wanting to be in shape be strong is now bad??? This party has done everything to make me NOT want to vote for them. OP asked why things shifted right then when people that shifted right answer why they then get downvoted. If you guys wonder why white men dont vote dem its probably because for 1015 years the left has demonized them for everything. I thought you guys knew this. But the truth is Men will not tell you they are voting for Trump. I would vote right/conservative again and again. But in a social context I would not talk about it. I would just get singled out cancelled etc. Yeah the inclusion empathy kindness people are not very inclusive after all who knew. So a lot of the men you see that talk shit about Trump or maybe just say they don’t like him will actually vote for him. Libs young men are degenerate bigots theyre racist and sexist and transphobes Libs why won’t young men vote for us [removed] Post 18 What are the pros and cons of Trump’s restrictions on entry into the U.S. for citizens of twelve countries? Today Trump signed a proclamation fully restricting the entry of citizens from twelve countries into the United States. Citizens from Afghanistan Burma Chad the Republic of Congo Equatorial Guinea Eritrea Haiti Iran Libya Somalia Sudan and Yemen are fully barred from entry while citizens from Burundi Cuba Laos Sierra Leone Togo Turkmenistan and Venezuela will face partial suspensions. Trump’s justification for the bans centers on concerns about terrorism and other threats to public safety. Do you agree with Trump’s decision to suspend or partially suspend travel from these countries? Do you believe his concerns are wellfounded or is this an attempt to advance a political narrative? How might these travel restrictions affect international relations humanitarian efforts and America’s image abroad? . This is a subreddit for genuine discussion * Please keep it civil. Report rulebreaking comments for moderator review. * Dont post low effort comments like joke threads memes slogans or links without context. * Help prevent this subreddit from becoming an echo chamber. Please dont downvote comments with which you disagree. Violators will be fed to the bear. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* If we were truly worried about terrorism Saudi Arabia would be on the list. The majority of hijackers who committed the worse terrorist attack on US soil were Saudi nationals. Qatar hosts the leaders of Hamas which is a terrorist organization and gives money to them. But they also bribed Trump with a $400 million airplane so we know he has a price. This after with the partial justification that its safe for Afghans to return to an Afghanistan under Taliban rule. I’m not going to go into crazy detail and won’t comment on pros think blanket bans are pretty stupid but the Afghanistan ban concerns me. If you were a translator or otherwise supporting the US military in Afghanistan does this apply? Because if it does I think it is callous and mean. This crosses partisan lines as well. If you supported the US military in Afghanistan and can no longer emigrate and be supported by the US that is a death sentence. Just another example of the complete lack of empathy of the trump administration. I believe concerns about terrorism and other threats to public safety from these countries are fabrications to cover his true motive racism. There is no credible evidence that people from these countries have a greater proclivity for terrorism than other countries. There is credible evidence that Trump and other members of his administration hold racist prejudices that favor Caucasians over other races. The truth is the Trump administration wants white skinned people to remain the dominant class in the U.S. This is a distraction so youre not focusing on the budget bill that strips healthcare from millions of Americans in exchange for tax cuts for billionaires. Am I missing something with these bans?? Did any of these countries export a single terrorist” to our country?? Extremely performative and racist considering again they are all black and brown countries only. [deleted] Pro TACO scores points with is racist xenophobic base. Cons It takes people who are willing to work hard out or our society and our economy. Ironically the terror attack that seems to have inspired this latest round of travel bans was allegedly perpetrated by an Egyptian man and Egypt isnt on the list of countries facing a travel ban. Qatar is a known sponsor of terrorism yet Qatar is also not on the list. I guess Trump is just waiting for his plane to be delivered before adding them... Saudi Arabia is also again missing from the list even though the U.S. has strong evidence that they also sponsor terrorist organizations. Guess buys you an exemption... IMO this wont make American safer from terrorists. However it will encourage countries that want to deal with U.S. companies offer Trump bribes which is what it seems Trumps actual goal is based on his past actions. curiously Saudi Arabia whose citizens in the US perpetrated the attack on 9/11 is excluded Also that means no political refugees from those dictatorial countries would be allowed in? I guess it could be mildly useful in preventing terrorism but the PATRIOT act was designed to enhance surveillance of potential terrorists in the US. Mostly this looks like red meat for the bases paranoia and not a meaningful policy Pro our consulate doesnt have to issue rejections Con we miss out on visa application fees This seems like a list of countries that will have as little impact as possible on US travel. So i guess thats a pro. If the country is that bad then there are surely good people who deserve to get out and the US—despite what Republicans want you to believe—has all the resources to take care of them and turn them into valuable contributors to society. Of course Saudi Arabia the country the 9/11 hijackers came from isnt on the list. Kills any notion of it not being political This looks like a whos who list of countries that either dont have a functional law enforcement system capable of screening criminals on their side or countries that outright refuse to cooperate with US immigration to screen criminals out. Either way they need to figure things out on their end first its not our problem to fix. [deleted] I realize this is a fringe concern but I wonder what this means for Major League Baseball — theres a team in Canada and most teams have at least one or two Cubans or Venezuelans on the roster. Seems like skin color is the major determining factor in deciding who is a terrorist and who isnt. Trump is demented. Trump is worse than a bigot. Hes a bigot that bigots to keep his name in the news. The pro of this to Trump is that he gets to show that hes actively despicable to a crowd that supports that. It is a sign of our nations completely failing moral compass and a glimpse into what makes Trump a monster. He doesnt even have the moral conviction of a racial supremacist but instead his motives are just to bait controversy and stay relevant. It is a valid banal evil. A perfect for this dictator his regime and the party that supports him. I heard that he picked the countries because he claims their citizens had a higher number of their citizens overstaying their visas. That is not true. Mexico and other Central American countries are hands down the ones who overstay statistically. This is all bull especially going after cubans when the current secretary of state family was a cuban immigrant. The hypocrisy is astounding. 15 of the 19 high jackers were from SaudiArabia. Saudi Arabia was not on the list during trumps 1st administration nor are they on the present one. Am I’m missing something? I am not going to go through the full list but really doubt banning Afghanistan which is run by the Taliban is going to affect us negatively. Or Iran aren’t they waging a proxy war against us through Hezbollah? Hardly unreasonable to put them on this list. As for whether it is truly a security reason or politics…it is probably a bit of both. The countries listed are not exactly the most vigorous supporters of the US. At this point your guess is as good as mine at what trump will do next. I swear to god Trump is all lizard brain. He has no past or future thoughts it’s all 100% in the moment no questions asked. This was a stupid decision on Trump’s part although stupid is the normal for Trump although it wasn’t unexpected. It’s just an expansion of the bans he instituted during his first term. I would hazard a guess that countries like Haiti and Venezuela are on this list so Trump can convince everyone that he’s creating the greatest border in the history of our country” by getting rid of the illegal cateating immigrants. There’s probably a more sane explanation for the restrictions on Afghans or Iranians but in my opinion the bans are mostly politically motivated nonetheless. Should the whole Trump team be sent to Guantanamo for the rest of their lives this will be one of the lesser reasons. Wait…. Are you really asking this sub to come up with any pros on anything Trump’s administration proposes? Shame on you…. Downvotes coming in five four three…. I have given up trying to justify his actions. Fred Trump had alzheimers. Alzheimers disease can have a hereditary component particularly in rare cases of earlyonset familial Alzheimers which is linked to specific genetic mutations. He is an idiot if you believe anything that comes from his mouth you are also thats what I think of his petty policies Isnt the biggest terrorist threat domestic conservatives? Were his wouldbe assassins domestic or foreign? Are the people sending pipe bombs or attacking democrat senators foreign? What about those shooting or running over protesters or actual militias trying to overthrow state and federal govt? The United healthcare shooter? Or the vandalism to Teslas? He is just whipping up policies that all lend to the narrative that we are under an invasion when were clearly not. There is basically zero threat of external terrorists afaik. The problems are American. They try to cash in their US Treasury Bonds but we can’t pay it. Bankruptcy is popular with this guy. Who knew ? This was the best decision trump has made He should stop these people from entering our country 🇺🇸 from other countries. DC Democrats are behind this new Virus 🦠 from China 🇨🇳. China 🇨🇳 Russia 🇷🇺 and Ukraine 🇺🇦 are terrorist Counties. Most Middle East countries support terrorism. They never come here 🇺🇸 for a friendly visit 😡 Post 19 How did Nevada go from voting 55%42% for Obama in 2008 to going for Trump in 2024? Nevada is an interesting state in that for the last several election cycles it has gone consistently for Democrats until last year. The trend seems to be a steady shrinkage of the Democratic share of the vote until it finally hit a critical point and tipped in 2024. Why is this? Why are Republicans slowly gaining more influence in Nevada over the years while Democrats are losing it? Should we expect similar results in 2028 or will it go back to being safely blue? . This is a subreddit for genuine discussion * Please keep it civil. Report rulebreaking comments for moderator review. * Dont post low effort comments like joke threads memes slogans or links without context. * Help prevent this subreddit from becoming an echo chamber. Please dont downvote comments with which you disagree. Violators will be fed to the bear. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Obama is an outlier. He’s a once in a generation candidate. If you exclude him Nevada has never been a solidly blue state. Bush Jr. won it twice and Hillary and Biden both won it by less than 5%. The same thing has happened to many blue areas across the country. The short answer is that working class people were unsatisfied with the status quo and liked what they heard from the right more than the left. Vegas in particular is heavily service oriented. In the Obama era that meant a lot of lower income folks supported Obama under the hope of change as the previous Bush admin was seen to represent the interests of the wealthy. Twenty years later not much has improved for people in Vegas and the cost of living is higher than ever. It’s easy to see where people might turn to populist rhetoric. I would caution against taking 2008 as a starting point Nevada has been a divided state for a long time before Obamas landslide it had gone for George W. Bush twice. What has made it trickier for Democrats to hold in the Trump era is that compared with other blue states its much poorer and more working class which are the demographics that Trump has made the most gains for Republicans in really only New Mexico is similarly poor in terms of blue states. The reason it held on in 2016 while other bluecollar states like Wisconsin or Pennsylvania flipped is that Nevada is far more diverse and in particular has a large Latino population and Clinton managed to hold Obamas numbers with Latinos even as she lost white voters. But Latinos have since followed bluecollar whites in 2020 and 2024 causing Nevada to be one of the only states to swing right in 2020 and eventually to flip in 2024. The perception that Biden caused the downturn in tourism during COVID and belief that Trump wouldnt tax tips. Apathy literally drove this election to the results we see today. Trump 77M Harris 75M Registered Nonvoters 89M The problem is that people have lost faith in the system. There will be a lot of answers posted here but the reality is that its hard to analyze high level trends like this. Most elections are decided by the current day context and the candidates and not by trends. The only factor that the existing data supports as being a decider for the election in 2024 is the economy. There are other factors for sure but none that would singlehandedly tilt the outcome of the election. On the other hand you shouldnt discount the candidates themselves. The fact is that Obama was popular. Biden was not as popular but was still associated with Obamas presidency. Clinton and Harris were never popular and generally performed poorly in their previous elections. Clinton failed the primary once and very nearly failed the second time. Harris peaked at 15% popularity in her primary and did not even participate in the second. Should we expect similar results in 2028 or will it go back to being safely blue? We should expect Nevada to vote based on the environment in 2028 and the quality of the candidates. If the economy doesnt improve that will lean toward voting blue. If either side puts up an unpopular candidate that will push the needle as well. Its increasingly clear to me that Democrats have to pick something to fight that appeals to the working class. They cannot just insist that more of the same is going to deliver. They cannot educate people on their policy ideas in an election no matter how good they sound. They need to pick a target to fight against and go for it. Republicans chose minorities LGBTQ POC and immigrants and it worked. It doesnt matter that Republicans pull in less money than Democrats they have a clear message of what theyre fighting against. Democrats *need* to fight corporate interests and fight against income inequality. Its the only fight that will win them their constituency back. The obvious retort is Democrats will not do this because they *dont want to* which lost them the working class. Ths short story is that covid pain and the inflation that followed helped shift voters to focus on economic issues and the false assumption that the GOP would better deliver jobs and growth. In addition demographic changes shifting voter loyalties—especially among Latinos and noncollegeeducated whites—and a more competitive Republican ground game all turned the tide to the right. But the GOP wins have been narrow and could be reversed. Nevada is and will remain a swing state Wannabe libertarians and people who left CA for CoL reasons in addition to a rightward shift among young men who are often Latino. Obama is not the basis to compare candidates to. Beyond that Democrats are seen as the establishment the suits” and many voters see Republicans as a chance to shake up the status quo. They’re seen as prowar the characterization of Ukraine as fair or not a proxy forever war and their administration’s defense of a blatantly barbaric war on Gaza pro Wall Street Trump’s populist way of talking to the average white family compared to the convoluted disorganized and occasionally condescending way Dems talk and out of touch culture” war. This Republican administration will screw things up horribly then some uninspiring Democrat will win off a platform for change. They won’t get that done roadblocks in Congress and outoftouch policy from geriatric dinosaurs so the status quo remains the same and people get discontent. Those people decide they want to break the system so they elect the next Republican administration to shake things up who will then promptly screw things up and the cycle begins again. This will go on until demographics and the status quo changes. Multiple things but for one Republicans have been moving out of California for a while. Pretty easy to move right next door to Nevada. They are also moving to Arizona quite a bit. Additionally as others have said Trump appeals to the more bluecollar Democratic base as well as the crunchy granola antivax faction so hes stealing two groups of Democrat voters. 20212025 was awful for the 99% and Harris said she couldnt think of anything she would do differently than Biden. Dem candidate was under investigation ISIS attacks James Comey early voting announcement and RW social media bullshit Hispanics actually do not like illegal immigration contrary to what we were led to believe. We were led to believe that if the GOP wanted to win over Hispanics they needed to deprioritize the border which ended up being categorically false. Just want to add that economy didn’t feel good to individuals and with higher interest rates and groceries being up that soured peoples opinions. Democrats fell pretty flat when they say US economy is strong but voters felt personally financially pressured. Both were not wrong. That and trump saying he is going to fix everything on day one. And elections are a popularity contest/ likable contest. Not a scientific scored exam. Trump almost lost Texas! They had 6 simultaneous lawsuits to hold out 2.5 million ballots from blue counties. He only won by 1.5 million. The anonymous hacker group said they saw interference in 3 swing states. Some voting locations switched to using Starlink internet for their connection..... The frustration of the working class is real and multifaceted but that doesn’t mean we can ignore the mechanisms that shape how that frustration is directed and politicized. The conservative media ecosystem — from AM talk radio and cable news to social media and conspiracy platforms — has spent decades crafting a narrative that frames economic and cultural grievances in terms that benefit a specific political agenda. It’s not organic. It’s strategic. People like Rush Limbaugh and Tucker Carlson weren’t just commentators they were ideological architects tapping into real discontent but channeling it in ways that often inflamed division and scapegoated vulnerable groups. Then there’s the foreign interference piece — especially the documented Russian campaigns in 2016 and beyond. U.S. intelligence agencies and bipartisan investigations have confirmed that Russia’s Internet Research Agency specifically aimed to support Trump and sow distrust in American institutions. Much of this involved flooding social media with disinformation that echoed or amplified rightwing narratives. This too often shrugged off” — sometimes because the topic gets polarized sometimes because media outlets fear being accused of bias and sometimes because the scale of the influence is hard to quantify without sounding conspiratorial. But ignoring it doesn’t make it less real. It’s possible to hold two truths at once that many Americans have legitimate grievances and that those grievances have been manipulated by a vast wellfunded and coordinated media and disinformation machine — both domestic and foreign. We can’t talk about the state of our politics without acknowledging both sides of that equation. You have to looked at turnout and demographics. Personally I feel that turnout may have been lower partly because Republicans have made it more difficult to vote. Younger voters overwhelmingly voted Obama in 2008. Male Gen Z went red because they get all their news from right wing podcasts. If we lived in a true open republic with strong voting rights the clown would never have been elected. But we don’t. Demographics and the economy don’t favor the Democrats going forward in Nevada. It has taken some pretty aggressive gerrymandering to get to this point. According to CNN and NBC exit polling Trump won Latino and Asian males in Nevada garnering 59% of their vote. So a solid victory with White Latino and Asian working class male vote will win you Nevada every time. Dems are bleeding working class voters including minority working class voters and aren’t really picking up other voters to offset that. There are different explanations for this but the trend is clear. Populism and a shitty economy. People felt they weren’t doing as well as they used to be doing. One guy told them they weren’t doing well and he wanted to fix that. The other side said actually you’re doing fine you just don’t understand economics. Its a swing state. Obama massively overperformed in 2008 compared to modern political performances I did a deep dive on ohio... Quite a bit did change as much as youd think But places like Canton and Toledo swung really hard to Trump Whiteindustrialized working class Jobswent to automation china mexico rec states.. Bix boxstores killed downtowns..note i believe canton is clevelandvsuburb or MSA Trump is substantially similar in terms of his policies to Bill Clinton who is slightly to Obama’s right but substantially to the left of even George W Bush let alone Bob Dole or Ronald Reagan. The voters likely prefer someone who would have been considered broadly centrist 20 years ago to someone not willing to curtail transgenderism. TLDR the GOP under Trump has shifted to the left on social issues compared to before he became the nominee in 2016. many working class ppl shifted from D to R while many upper class college educated ppl shifted from R to D. NV has more of the first group. btw same thing that happened to MI. it voted 5741 in favour of obama in 2008. 8 years later trump did the unthinkable and flipped the state. Because things went way to far left and with all the pandering to minorities and anti Americanism going on in the left even leftist got tired of it. They went to extreme on the liberal ideologies and pushed even their own base away. Someone who was considered center left before is now considered right leaning. This is the truth. An 8 point swing over 16 years isnt really all that month. 08 was the high water mark for dem candidates People wanted some different. Prices have been elevated ever since Trump’s last term but folks all over the country allowed themselves to be fooled into believing again that Trump was/is gonna do something about it and help them. And yet here we are again 6 months in and prices are still up and now Trump and Co are cutting away large portions of the social safety net and they are so deluded that these voters actually believe the BS that it’s the Democrats fault. What happened is that people on the lower income spectrum have for a couple of centuries now expressed fear of and resentment towards immigrants. And the most unscrupulous politician of this generation took advantage of it pretending that it’s a critical issue. The only way the US can make sure that Republicans dont win the election would be to introduce mandatory voting. Most people who dont vote are leftleaning. Check what happened in Australia after they introduced mandatory voting. Big downturn in Las Vegas tourism due to COVID. Nevada suffered disproportionally from lockdowns and people arent happy when they lose their jobs IMO the democrats had a weak candidate and didn’t connect well with the voters. Their campaign was lacking that feel.” Meanwhile trump was constantly on the attack and promised everything to everyone. I’m not sure if people voted for trump because they believed he was the best candidate or they felt disappointed and disillusioned with the Harris and her campaign. I’m curious who will step up for the Democratic Party or will they wait for trump to implode the Republican Party and step over the carnage. The secret sauce is racism bigotry and misogyny. Thats the secret. Naked hatred gets people out of their house to vote to hurt people. Trump ran a media campaign for FOUR YEARS not just election season. Four years of lying and winding people up on made up grievances. And the news media just let him run his mouth the whole time. ... because hate sells clicks. Clinton and Harris were extremely unpopular candidates. Voters felt like those 2 were anointed were arrogance and they really were shit at connecting with voters even if they were clearly the better choice for working class Americans. They didnt inspire anyone to vote for them. Obama was charismatic and gave people hope. Hillary and Kamala were absolutely not. when you flip a coin on which corrupt grandpa you are forced to vote in that tends to happen....When you remove any option from one of the parties like the DEMs did you kinda force the hand of the voter...on one hand you have hot and cold shit being served to you. The hot shit allowed you to pick it over a different plate of hot shit. The cold shit kicked out ever other piece of cold shit it could shut the doors and forced its members to try the new cold shit from the updated freezers.....anyhow parse that and then start hating but make sure you work through it first. At least 3.5 million votes were successfully surpressed across the country by people simply accusing them of being illegitimate. Most of these voters had no idea and certainly were not given the opportunity to contest the accusations so their votes didnt count. Ask yourself why the Democrats are ok with this though. Not a peep about it is coming from them. Pretty self explanatory. Obama was a much more popular candidate during a time where the democrats as a whole were also more popular. Its to be expected when one of the two parties becomes increasingly extremist in its views for the majority to shift to the other option. Moved from Vegas after living there for ten years. Main reason was because the education there is really crappy. Our son started 2nd grade in our current state a red state if u can beleive that and initially his national scores were like 9% in English and 25% in math. His scores doubled his first two semesters here. Now in sixth grade he scores 87% nationally in English and 99% in math he was doing prealgebra in 5th grade and will start algebra in 6th this fall. My point is there are TONS of poorly informed/educated folks in Nevada due to the poor education system there. I know many people are not native Nevadans but when mommy is a stripper and daddy is a casino dealer big generalization here you dont foster the best home life or aspirations for kids in some cases. Post 20 How do you change a news report to feel less implicitly left or biased towards a certain point of view? New Yorker staff writer Clare Malone posed this question during a discussion with editor Tyler Foggat on a March episode of the New Yorker podcast The Political Scene. The two were discussing the changes Jeff Bezos is bringing to The Washington Post and the US news media landscape in general. Malone went on to add that is a question lots of news rooms discuss internally particularly right now. This is in the context of the 2024 presidential election which saw shifting demographics with more Latinos Blacks and Asians voting Republican. According to Malone greater coverage of marginalized groups...and social justice issues does not count as implicit left bias. So what is implicit left bias in a news story exactly? What does it look like? . This is a subreddit for genuine discussion * Please keep it civil. Report rulebreaking comments for moderator review. * Dont post low effort comments like joke threads memes slogans or links without context. * Help prevent this subreddit from becoming an echo chamber. Please dont downvote comments with which you disagree. Violators will be fed to the bear. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* This means that theyre thinking deeply about how to make Trumps objectively negative behavior sound less negative in headlines because weve created a couple of generations of people who cant a differentiate between a fact and an opinion and b dont really read their news anyway. Left bias in objective hard news reporting is a myth. It flat out doesn’t exist. The biggest con the American right has pulled on the ENTIRE WORLD is that the media” is leftleaning to outright bias. As usual for the last decade plus every accusation my the American right is a confession How do you change a news report to feel less implicitly left? Move it away from reality and connect it to things it has no relation with. Start my inverting the adjectives. Make positive ones into negative ones and vice versa. There is that old expression I’m sure someone else here will also mention it that Reality has a well know left bias. That is to say if you just honestly and earnestly report on the issues of the day giving full and nuanced coverage of what is actually true and relevant and do zero editorializing or selective presentation you will come off as left leaning. So in order to correct for that a lot of new outlets feel the need to actually skew right and give more time and more amplification to right leaning topics and guests in order to correct for the perceived left bias that comes from just reporting reality as it is. So really there are two different questions here. 1 how do I eliminate ACTUAL genuine left bias. And 2 how do I or should I at all eliminate the perceived left bias that comes from reporting on the world as it actually is. Leftleaning mainstream media is a fantasy created by the right to control the uptake of reality. The media’s real bias is toward sensationalism and for the last 30 years mollifying the right via bothsidesism. According to Malone greater coverage of marginalized groups...and social justice issues does not count as implicit left bias. framing groups of people as marginalized groups is implicit left bias. Malone doesnt realize how strong their own bias is do they? So what is implicit left bias in a news story exactly? What does it look like? using therapy terminology or overly liberal framing of things . marginalized oppressor historically disadvantaged power dynamics undocumented migrant etc There is a time and a place where some of that lingo makes sense. every single news story is not the correct frequency. They need to get away from editorializing everything or telling the reader this is bad Politician Triangle in an evil move cut funding for kids lunches which is cruel because now they starve. should be written as Politician Triangle cut funding for kids lunches some of these children will now go with out lunches. will the voters remember this come November? we ask some local residents to find out. chances are that readers will draw the same conclusions with or with out the author trying so hard to lead them to that conclusion. Bias in news reporting means to present facts in a way that gives the reader a narrow picture of the story rather than giving them a fuller picture which includes more points of view and nuance. In the case of left bias that viewpoint favors a leftwing political social or cultural agenda. One aspect of this bias is framing. A few examples from recent news. Take the reporting on Milwaukee County Circuit Court Judge Hannah Dugan indicted with illegally helping Eduardo FloresRuiz evade immigration authorities. When the story was initially reported on in April news outlets buried the reason FloresRuiz was in court which was three counts of battery domestic abuse and infliction of physical pain or injury. One news outlet only mentioned the charges fifteen paragraphs into the story. https//apnews.com/article/immigrationjudgearrested7997186bbca5730e70a25f2347e631f6 Another framing example is the story on DOGE cuts to the USDA school lunch program. Outlets like Politico focused mainly on the negative side of the DOGE cuts. However a little research reveals there is in fact a healthy debate to be had. You would not get this impression reading some news outlets. https//www.politico.com/news/2025/03/10/usdacancelslocalfoodpurchasingforschoolsfoodbanks00222796 You could really write a whole book about this topic. I wish I had more time to research it. Aside from framing theres another aspect of left bias in the media. Lets call it focus bias. Some stories receive a disproportional amount of focus or coverage relative to the credibility of the story. The coverage of the Steele Dossier during Trumps first term is one example. In his 2023 book Martin Baron then editor of the Washington Post wrote We did fail in one significant respect...a failure of omission. We owed the public a very different story a tough examination of Steele and his work. Former New York times investigative reporter Barry Meiers criticism of the medias failure is more harsh. He states in his book that reporters failed to factcheck the Steele report because they didnt want to look like they were carrying water for Trump and his cronies. Left bias occurs when a story is presented with a slant to downplay some aspect of the story as in the Dugan story or spotlight another as in the DOGE/USDA story. It also takes place when unsubstantiated stories are treated credibly like with the Steele story. You could also add the reverse case when a credible story like the Biden mental acuity decline story which is later seen to be credible is treated as uncredible for example by former press secretary Karine JeanPierre. Post 21 What do you think about Mexico’s judicial elections? On June 1 2025 Mexico held its firstever judicial elections making it the only country in the world where all federal judges are elected by popular vote with voters electing 881 federal positions including all 9 Supreme Court justices plus nearly 2000 local judicial roles across 19 states. About 13 million votes were cast with roughly 13% turnout a record low for a federal election in Mexico. Former President López Obrador pushed through this constitutional reform in September 2024 as one of his final acts claiming it would democratize the judiciary and fight corruption by replacing Mexico’s appointmentbased selection with popular elections giving judges renewable 9year terms. However the reform has sparked massive controversy with critics calling it democratic backsliding citing major concerns including civil society groups identifying dozens of candidates with alleged ties to drug cartels including El Chapo’s former lawyer running for judge opposition claims it’s a power grab by the ruling Morena party to control the courts and international observers warning it violates the U.S.MexicoCanada trade agreement’s requirements for impartial tribunals. Is this an opportunity to rethink the role of the judiciary in a democracy or is this just part of the democratic backsliding trend? . This is a subreddit for genuine discussion * Please keep it civil. Report rulebreaking comments for moderator review. * Dont post low effort comments like joke threads memes slogans or links without context. * Help prevent this subreddit from becoming an echo chamber. Please dont downvote comments with which you disagree. Violators will be fed to the bear. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* I am so torn. On one side I fully appreciate the democracy behind this but on the other hand that is how you get those without qualifications installed into government. I am not sure what the middle ground here is? Do you impose a minimum qualification standard? Its absurdly stupid judges should never be elected. It openly demeans the entire legal profession and the concept of an unbiased system of justice. Populism is all but directly contrary to legal philosophy and thats aside from the new potential for corruption it has introduced. Its a great practice that we should adopt. Leave unelected councils of elders deciding the law to Iran. Post 22 Do you think there’s any chance Putin will retaliate with nuclear weapons after this drone strike? Particularly because the current US administration may be against doing anything punitive. Putin may see this as a chance to strike or would you think the current European alliance with Ukraine is enough to discourage that? . This is a subreddit for genuine discussion * Please keep it civil. Report rulebreaking comments for moderator review. * Dont post low effort comments like joke threads memes slogans or links without context. * Help prevent this subreddit from becoming an echo chamber. Please dont downvote comments with which you disagree. Violators will be fed to the bear. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Putin is not going to nuke anything unless its *actually* an existential threat to his regime. Theres nothing a limited nuclear strike can do tactically or strategically that you cant accomplish with conventional explosives and Ukraine is close enough that large scale use of nukes will dump radiation on both the areas he hopes to annex and Russia proper. It will also evaporate any lingering sympathy Russia is getting from the rest of the world. Theres nothing to gain from doing it and a lot to lose. Its the sort of thing that might be far enough past the pale that he ends up suffering a 9mm stroke if he actually tries and push for it. Simple fact is the elite including Putin have their children and mistresses studying / working / living in London New York etc. They havent been deported for one simple reason. No one even a mad dictator will kill their own. If they all suddenly leave for South America... then worry. A nuclear attack on Ukraine risks escalate to all out nuclear war. So no to that. Also China would side with the west in condemning use of a nuke and Russia needs China for supplies. They dont want the precedent eg they attack Taiwan and USA nukes the invasion fleet. Also a tactical nuke is useless vs the low density battlefield situation. Dug in troops are pretty safe. Lastly NATO made it clear a nuke means radiation falling on their nations and even Trump would have to go all in to destroy all Russian forces in Ukraine. He would look to weak. Even NATO without USA can wipe out the Russian Army and remaining Black Sea fleet. If Putin goes nuts and orders a strike he probably would have an accident. Zero chance. This is like Korea or Vietnam. There are rules set down for these types of conflicts. No zero percent chance of nukes being used. I suspect Putin would fall out of” a sixth floor window if he tried and if he succeeded the west would respond militarily. It would be a massive provocation for Russia to nuke a country they attacked and have bombed deep in Ukraine for Ukraine bombing them back. 0%! Zip. Zero. Zilch. None. Nada. Nil. Honest to goodness as it concerns potential nuclear war particularly in the shorttomidterm future doomsayers scaremongers worrywarts and skyisfalling Chicken Littles should be less fixated on Europe more focused toward South Asia. Putin was planning a false flag dirty bomb attack in Russia according to Bob Woodward’s book WAR” A Russian military advisor contacted Biden’s state department to tell them they had credible evidence of a dirty bomb attack that Ukraine was planning using fuel rods from their nuclear sites. The Biden state department immediately dispatched teams to Ukraine’s nuclear sites to inspect them. They found no evidence of this claim. Joe Biden confronted this by contacting Russia’s closest allies India China Iran and informing them of what Putin was planning. The leaders of those countries contacted Putin told him they knew what he was doing. And that if he used a nuclear weapon they would no longer be allied with Russia. And this defused the situation. Putin cannot use a nuclear weapon without destroying the future of Russia. Argument for nuclear * This is an interesting case study because Putin is obviously very frustrated with the delays in this war and has threatened nukes heavily in the past. In addition Russias nuclear doctrine does state that if their nuclear capacity is threatened they may respond with a nuclear response. * This particular attack does meet the threshold listed in Russias nuclear doctrine given that a significant number of Russias nuclear carrying bombers have been destroyed and multiple awaks were damaged/destroyed as well. Argument against * Ukraines forces are dispersed enough where a nuclear strike likely wouldnt have a major impact on capability negating its effectiveness. Russia could target a city but that would be seen as an incredible escalation that it is likely not on the cards. * Russias allies are not keen on this war turning nuclear as it opens the floodgates for nuclear war. * Russia was quick to announce that the USA had no involvement in Ukraines attack which limits Russias response options to Ukraine as a casus belli is not present against the USA. Overall I dont think its likely for them to use nukes but theres always a small outside possibility He might consider it but it seems highly unlikely. Russia being forced to fall back to using nukes in what was supposed to be a 30day walk would be immensely embarrassing to Putin but it would be even more embarrassing if he used one and it failed to function which is a very real possibility considering the state of the rest of Russias military these days. While I don’t think they’ll use a tactical nuke at this point they would have already… this was a direct blow to the Russian nuclear triad They have to respond in order to maintain deterrence and there’s not many escalatory actions left No theyll go big after any materiel or aviation bases/centers they know of and rail supply routes from western Ukraine. Ironically though it will be more difficult with fewer bombers in the rotation. Absolutely not. Using Nuclear weapons would end Russia and probably a lot of other countries too. USA is not the only nuclear power and if Putain opens that Pandoras box Moscow will be glass and he knows it. No. The use of nuclear weapons would imminently cause every country in the world to support Ukraine. It also might cause other countries to get more involved and it would just be a mess. No. I dont think so. I did suspect that even if the west put boots on the ground the nuclear option will not happen. No. I dont think theres going to be any retaliation. Russia was not holding back on attacking Ukraine if they could retaliate they would have been using that ability before it was retaliatory. The US would have to respond or theyd be admitting that theyre no longer the number 1 global power. If putin uses nukes it will end very badly for everyone including him and Russia Theres a reason these things are called the nuclear option. It wipes out everything for the aggressor to take as well. Wars are ultimately about resources. Sometimes its because one doesnt have any or its unusable or running out. Sometimes its about controlling markets or being the only one that has it. Putin nukes Ukraine on the short term goal he loses everything he wants from the land. Water is polluted soil is irradiated minerals are dissolved or chemically altered to be unusable. Long term theres a DMZ in place that acts as a toxic buffer. No one will be using ports nearby no air travel no land transports. Every country around Ukraine will have decades of fallout to deal with and Russia becomes a pariah on the world stage. No Mr. Putin is more likely to respond with cyber attacks. These could impact the US especially if we disable our cyber defenses. 27 responses not many but the consensus is no. If Mr. Putin is in his right mind it would make no sense yet if he was in his right mind why would he think invading Ukraine going straight for Kiev was a great idea? Anyway my thinking is also no he will not use nuclear weapons. My take? Every country in NATO would ship every bomber plane drone tank and every troop straight to Moscow. India and Pakistan might nuke Moscow. If I had the football it would get used and I would giggle at the Kremlin turned to glass. Sorry about Zukhovs grave. The first thing that would happen after a nuclear strike on Ukraine is that Zelenskyy would ask for nukes and he would get them. Do you think there’s any chance Putin will retaliate with nuclear weapons after this drone strike? The only correct answer to the title question is yes. Post 23 What do you think about Xi Jinpings anticorruption campaign? Is it making things better or worse for the people in China? Author UpsetPhilosopher862Post Text There have been thousands of officials and businessmen punished so far because of the campaign. Corruption is a really big issue in China so it is good that people are being punished. But it is hard to know what is actually happening with so much control on information in China. We see high ranking officials being charged but it is not always clearly explained why. It seems some officials are targeted and others are ignored. Is the campaign actually helping corruption issues in China or is it just making people hide corrupt activities more and care more about protecting themselves? . This is a subreddit for genuine discussion * Please keep it civil. Report rulebreaking comments for moderator review. * Dont post low effort comments like joke threads memes slogans or links without context. * Help prevent this subreddit from becoming an echo chamber. Please dont downvote comments with which you disagree. Violators will be fed to the bear. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* As with most of these types of campaigns we likely wont know its real impact until years later. Its worth noting that Xi has increased his level of personal control over China for decades and is now effectively the ruler of China akin to a dictator or king. Autocracies trend to see higher corruption than democracies because officials dont answer to the people but rather to others in government usually those above them. Its very possible this is an attempt by Xi to crack down on a very real corruption problem. Its also possible that this is an effective purge of those who dont back him. You can’t really battle corruption without both efficient rule of law and independent courts. You need a efficient rule of law so that when something goes wrong a person can appeal to the courts and get a remedy relatively quickly. This is why roads in a lot Third World countries suck. There’s no mechanism to force the government or the road authority or whatever to make repairs even if the failure to repair is causing injuries. In the United States if there’s a giant hole in the road that is causing people to crash or damage their cars they are going to sue or their insurance companies are and the government doesn’t want that. So they proactively fix the roads. The independent judiciary is necessary because obviously they have to be able to hold their own government accountable. That doesn’t work in China because neither of those are true. So they let these guys profit and do whatever until it becomes too much of a headache for the highest up people and then they randomly go around punishing or executing a few people until the story dies. The issue with any big organization with opaque structures is that they have their own priorities and agendas. These kinds of initiatives can easily be hijacked for local priorities which have little or no connection to the leadership intent. Authoritarian regimes put a premium on political loyalty and reliability so a certain level of corruption or other deviations are tolerated and it tricks down to the lowest levels. Its simple organizational logic which you can see on display all over the world including corporate America so why should it be different in China? I havent really looked at the details but Id be really surprised if enforcement of the initiative wasnt spotty and uneven. I think the net result will be an even stronger concentration of power in Xi Jinpings hands similar to the regular sweeps Stalin engaged in in the late 1920s and 1930s. If you are interested in this topic please check this published in Foreign Policy in 2020 about a decade long cybersecurity war between China and the US. Around 2010 using intelligence shared by Tehran a Chinese cybersecurity operation discovered a systematic CIA intelligence operation in the Chinese government where they used bribes to sponsor Chinese people to act as both spies and to sponsor proUS views in China. They were able to do this by exploiting loose oversight and corruption in the system with some Chinese operatives having an official U.S. government payroll in the million of dollars placed at the highest levels of the military civilian government and key roles in Chinese infrastructure most notably Huaweis Chinabased servers. In response starting from 2010 onwards the Chinese government began systematically purging officials and executing spies which culminated in the 2012 national anticorruption campaign. In addition they greatly intensified cybersecurity operations culminating in the 2015 OPM hack. By 2013 undercover CIA operations outside China were being tipped off by Chinese counterintelligence to the host countries the moment they stepped foot in the country. Simply put corruption had always been an issue in China as economic growth was the number 1 priority in the 2000s. Many a seeing eye was willing to be shut as long as it lead to economic results. The CIA successfully took advantage of this corruption to sponsor proUS agents but once it was discovered anticorruption and national security became synonymous. At the same time purging corrupt officials who were sponsored specifically to be proUS and likely procapitalist would undoubtedly result in a consolidation of power in the opposing faction hence the rise of Xi Jinpings faction which is opposed to complete liberalization. Is this new? I thought Xi conducted an anti corruption campaign back in 2014 or something The heavily ingrained concept of *guanxi* in Chinese culture ensures that a moderate level of corruption will always be present. As long as the corruption isn’t egregious aired out in the open or directly affecting governance it’s generally tolerated. Nothing will save you if you cross those lines and make the government look bad. Xi is just the first Chinese leader to so effectively weaponize an anticorruption campaign against his political adversaries while simultaneously purging people who were indeed egregiously corrupt. Against low to mid level officials the anticorruption campaign boosted people’s confidence in the central government because low to mid level corruption is what most tangibly affects people’s lives. Against the elite it is far more of a power play although nobody is going to lose any sleep over a high ranking politician getting sacked for obvious political reasons when they are simultaneously extremely corrupt. People are generally happy with the visible results and don’t care about the political implications as long as those running the show are competent. It’s probably going about as well as the witch trials in Salem did for ridding the town of witches. As a Chinese I can tell you responsibly that anticorruption is extremely effective. If the action is limited to the top power center it may only be seen as a blow to political opponents. But anticorruption has actually penetrated into the grassroots and has formed a deterrent among all public officials. Every year many grassroots corrupt officials are investigated and arrested and many retirees are also investigated for their property issues. I will not say that anticorruption can completely eliminate corruption. In fact there are still many people who have not been found out or whose interests are too involved but anticorruption has indeed improved the governments atmosphere. It can almost be said that few officials dare to be blatantly corrupt because it can become his handle at any time. Could be real or could be power consolidation like Trump draining the swamp.” I think discussing anticorruption campaigns in autocratic states is ridiculous. It’s basically How dare you steal from your king?” How is that supposed to help the people who are already being oppressed and robbed by the king? Not to mention that such a campaign can easily be used as a tool to suppress any opposition. I think the OP is hinting at a comparison between the anti corruption crackdown in China and DOGE in the USA. I don’t think anyone outside of China cares about corruption in China except perhaps to wonder if such a campaign is good if a dictator like Xi is doing it. My response is that corruption and inefficiency is universal. Just because we hate the Chinese government doesn’t mean that a campaign against corruption by Xi is automatically a bad thing. Capitalism is good as long as you separate it from government. Business people hate competition and will do their level best to corrupt government so that government can be used against their competitors. His enemy #1 is actually a heavy duty Trump ally https//www.reddit.com/r/freedomfriends/s/rxCg6OmHYH My guess is that this is more about getting rid of potential rivals and critics. However it probably has cut down significantly on corruption as a sideeffect. Is it actually an anticorruption campaign or is it a political purge? Were the targets actually corrupt or simply corrupt within normal Chinese government standards? Dont be fooled. Dictatorships like theirs are always *always* corrupt. More than likely theyre just persecuting those they dont like. You dont become a dictator so you can be limited by the law and be on the up and up. You become one because you want to steal from your country and control who does and doesnt get to steal with you. Well one thing it does do it makes the US look VERY corrupt!!! Boy that is quite a jump. How do you think our founders would feel about that? How about the men and women that died for this country to protect our country? Post 24 What is the future of Trump and Elon Musk? Will future presidential advisors wield as much power and influence as Musk did? The establishment of Elon Musks Department of Government Efficiency DOGE was not in any way wellreceived by the American public. Per polling Musk is currently disapproved of by nearly 14 points nationwidea stark contrast to Trumps ~4point disapprovalwhich means that for once both sides of the political spectrum are angry with the same person. Recently Trump announced Musks departure from the White House which has led some to believe that there was a conflict between the Musk and the president. Today the speculation all but proven to be officially true as Musk harshly criticized Trumps big beautiful bill on X saying I’m sorry but I just can’t stand it anymore. This massive outrageous porkfilled Congressional spending bill is a disgusting abomination. Shame on those who voted for it you know you did wrong. You know it. So what is the future of Trump and Musk? Do you think their relationship will be repaired? And will future presidents follow suit in granting outside advisors significant power and influence over government matters? . This is a subreddit for genuine discussion * Please keep it civil. Report rulebreaking comments for moderator review. * Dont post low effort comments like joke threads memes slogans or links without context. * Help prevent this subreddit from becoming an echo chamber. Please dont downvote comments with which you disagree. Violators will be fed to the bear. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* I garentee that Musk is not stepping back from influencing the Trump administration. I think what is most likely happening is Musk got most of what he wanted while simultaneously realizing it is politically dangerous and professionally costly for him to have such a public role in the administration. He is simply stepping back from view to weild his influence in the shadows and acting like Trump is pushing him out to help repair the damage done to Trump in the eyes of his base when he handed control of the nation over to a foreign oligarch. The bromance is over. Trump is going to say something about him on Truth Social and Musk will retaliate on X and reveal some thing like Trump shits his pants or is too stupid to understand whats happening etc... Trump will get banned again on X MAGA will lose their shit and they will all turn on Musk. Its going to get ugly because these assholes both love the attention and I cant wait to see them destroy each other. People really are buying into the reality T.V fight element. It has no impact other than what they create. Elon is trying to distance himself to not go into total ruin and Trump is still going to use him and get paid by him. It just wont be as obvious or ~~illegal~~ purposefully allowed by the State. This is all just smoke and mirrors. Theyre treating us like fools. And itll work too. Musk was only ever going to spend up to 130 days involved in government work as he would have to had to disclose his finances. https//fortune.com/2025/02/04/elonmuskspecialgovernmentemployee130daysavoidpublicdisclosures/ Republicans like electing actors who don’t care about their agendas and are happy acting like a rubber stamp. So yes. The only answer that can save America is jail. The illegal activities violations of the law theft of data must be punished. There is no getting past this without severe life altering consequences for everyone that contributed to this. This was a criminal conspiracy to violate the constitution and we can’t just shrug it off the way Biden did. Musk has said he became disillusioned with politics and bureaucracy. He expected to get power and influence and favorable business deals. He got the first two with DOGE but not the third. He was probably told that he could choose politics or his companies but not both by his board or his investors. Even if he’s the richest man in the world he still answers to someone else. Trump is used to people blowing up at him and doesn’t care who does as long as they eventually fall in line. Doubtful that Musk will do that now. I don’t think that they will have a partnership again but stranger things have happened. Ill believe that something has changed when Space X Starlink and other companies stop getting federal contracts. Musk did his propaganda bit about waste fraud and abuse. He got his government contracts got his guys installed into key positions in government. It doesnt matter what the imagined tension is until the money shows things have changed. It’s all a show.. just like him leaving his special government appointment with DOGE was contractually planned and had nothing to do with his mental health or politics. Musk is just an angry man child acting out because everyone now sees that he’s a drug using sociopathic clown who’s finally realized his reputation is now wildly wrecked beyond repair.. pissing his pants while on drugs aside he’s been fully outed for being a key part of the massive economic and beyond problems we’re now facing with his DOGE nonsense people have stopped buying Tesla’s because of him and it’s become very clear that his credibility as some sort of tech genius is now irreversible tarnished. My guess is that this is his PR team telling him to play this game to try and save whatever brand he still has with the derps knowing full well that he’s absolutely still behind the scenes kissing Trumps wrinkly orange ass for giving him literally billions of dollars for doing zero real work. Doesn’t matter because if these 2 end up together bad things happen to the American people. Now Elon money is being touched and he now wants to intervene like a good guy. Nope sorry Trump is like a child hell play with a new toy for a while but eventually tire of it and throw it aside. We all recall the turnover rate of White House staff during his first term aside from his need to install hardline supporters. You seem to be correlating Elon Musk polling with DOGE polling theyre not the same. The reality is I can walk up to most people and state the federal government is broken and spends too much money and most will agree. The disagreements come when its time to discuss what exactly is broken and how to reduce spending. Elon woke up from his drug fueled bender and realized that he’s alienating his entire customer base with his actions. Conservatives don’t buy EVs. Only thing IMO that explains his current behaviors. The last week or two has felt like him piloting a return to 2017 era Elon. Post 25 How useful are the IMF loans to Pakistan given the loans are fairly small for a high population country? Pakistan has a population of 241 million and yet only gets relatively small loans of around a billion dollars. Why isnt Pakistan able to raise enough funds on its own if it only needs that amount of money. I would expect loans of 10s of billions of dollars would be needed for major infrastructure projects. Are the loans for small isolated projects instead of helping with country wide problems? . This is a subreddit for genuine discussion * Please keep it civil. Report rulebreaking comments for moderator review. * Dont post low effort comments like joke threads memes slogans or links without context. * Help prevent this subreddit from becoming an echo chamber. Please dont downvote comments with which you disagree. Violators will be fed to the bear. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* IMF loans aren’t really meant for large infrastructure projects—they’re more like emergency stabilizers. The goal is to help countries avoid default shore up foreign reserves and restore confidence in the economy. That’s why the amounts seem small—these loans aren’t based on population but on what’s needed to stabilize shortterm finances. They also often unlock access to bigger funding from other sources. Pakistan struggles to raise funds on its own due to low tax revenue high debt and political risk so even a small” IMF loan can have a big impact behind the scenes. its to have foreign reserves because the local currency isnt attractive to anyone It is to fund the military who then use the same money to buy weapons and their terrorist organisations who are their proxy. They are so obsessed with India that they dont care about their own populations well being. Also it is both the USAs and Chinas bitch who will do anything for them. Lastly Pakistan will always remain funded sufficiently only to keep bothering India Post 26 Does it matter if a politician is in an open relationship? If a politician is in an open relationship does that impact your vote? Not talking about going behind their spouses back or anything like that just a consensual nonmonogamous relationship where everyone involved is informed and choosing to participate. This is distinct from a politician having an affair behind their spouses back which to some might indicate potential concerns with their moral values. If you answer please also indicate the political party you are most closely aligned with. I am curious if liberals or conservatives have similar or differing opinions on this topic. My prediction and I could be way off is that most people regardless of political party do not care about this sort of relationship but that liberals are probably a bit more accepting than conservatives in this regard. . This is a subreddit for genuine discussion * Please keep it civil. Report rulebreaking comments for moderator review. * Dont post low effort comments like joke threads memes slogans or links without context. * Help prevent this subreddit from becoming an echo chamber. Please dont downvote comments with which you disagree. Violators will be fed to the bear. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Im pretty far left politically speaking and it probably would not influence my vote that much assuming the candidate was generally honest and had a modicum of integrity. That being said if I had an SO that started talking about an open relationship Id be gone. I think it would make me mildly hesitant. Not because I have any particular interest in their personal relationships or family life but my gut response is that I can’t help but feel like a politician actively seeking out new sexual partners would be a great target for someone looking to do underthetable business with a politician. To me personally someone in power in an open relationship just seems like an obvious target for a honeypot operation. That’s not to say I believe all politicians in more traditional relationships are loyal to their spouses but announcing they have an open relationship just sounds like they are looking to get taken advantage of. I suppose they could have an open relationship without announcing it but at that point how would voters know in the first place? I am left leaning. I think it is the same level of iffiness as a politician who has many monogamous relationships not inherently bad but it does increase the risk for spies and leaks. On the moral front though that is totally a nothingburger to me assuming that all parties in said relationship have given their informed consent to the arrangement. I am politically heterodox but generally progressive antiestablishmentleaning My personal interaction with the half dozen or so people I know who have open relationships is the guy in the relationship was always an asshole and usually quite irresponsible and half the time the woman is too. So would make me less likely probably. I’m on the left and I think ENM relationships are kind of strange and I don’t really trust the judgement in personal matters of people in them. But I don’t think there is a single policy issue I care about less than what kind of relationships politicians are in provided everything is consensual. Honestly I’m center/left leaning and open relationships just seem weird as hell to me. That being said it has zero impact on me what other people do in their own relationship but I sure as hell would never be part of a dynamic like that. Would I judge that politician? Yes. Would it be a sole reason to change a vote? Not really. Would it at least have some sort of influence of my opinion? Yes. Really dont care too much what they do if they were honest and stood behind their decisions. I try not to vote based on the person just their policies but it would certainly gross me out and tube me the wrong way. conservative I have a hard time with friends who are in open relationships cause it always and i mean always ends badly. So honestly a politician would be very vulnerable to blackmail if they tried to hide it. I think its important to have core beliefs and take marriage vows seriously or just stay single. There are so many politicians with no spine or values as it is. I’m left leaning. No I wouldn’t vote for a candidate in an open relationship. It takes a certain level of emotional dissonance for open relationships to work that I just don’t trust. yes I am less likely to vote for a politician if they are in an open relationship. either they are totally emotionally detached form their significant other or they are going to have wild emotional stress at home non stop. either way definitely not who I want to be voting for. Im R and formally libertarian. I also would guess that Liberals would be more accepting of that but who knows. Republicans believe whatever they are told to believe. Just try to imagine if Trump was a Democrat. Their heads would be exploding across the country. I feel like it adds unnecessary risk. You cant really be on tinder or bang people you meet through your job if you are prime minister. The catfish would be standing in line. Wouldnt care if someone had two longterm partners at the same time so I guess Im pro ltr poly relationships over casual sexual encounters. A little old fashioned but I stand for it. Depends on the level. POTUS yeah it would be a factor. Not a deciding one unless it was very close already but all things equal I would prefer they didnt. Most politicians virtue signal so on account of hypocrisy I would not vote for them Post 27 Which works better Figurehead President vs Royalty in a Parliamentary System? Just to give you the context of why I am asking this question in my country Bangladesh there had been several calls for a Presidential form of Government. As we know that in a Parliamentary system the elected ones are Head of the Government and we must get one Head of the State. Many in Bangladesh reason that a Parliamentary system works better when theres royalty. But when theres no royalty in a country they keep this useless post President. And the Parliamentary System fails ruining a country. My question is this really true? That a parliamentary system works better with a royalty and highly unlikely to work well with a Figurehead President? What are the pros and cons or the multiple dimensions of these two forms of Parliamentary Governments? . This is a subreddit for genuine discussion * Please keep it civil. Report rulebreaking comments for moderator review. * Dont post low effort comments like joke threads memes slogans or links without context. * Help prevent this subreddit from becoming an echo chamber. Please dont downvote comments with which you disagree. Violators will be fed to the bear. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* If it’s totally useless monarch. Gives more legitimacy to the state. And with the church legitimizing the monarch the church legitimizes the state too. I would not say this is true. Generally speaking parliamentary systems tend to work better than presidential ones with or without a monarchy. But thats not an absolute rulean unhealthy democracy with certain structural issues can still exist even if its a parliament. And in that case just switching to presidential doesnt improve things unless you also address the reasons your parliamentary system is failing. A head of state in a parliamentary system is usually supposed to use at least some independent judgment in some types of cases. There can be genuine choices for a head of state to make. The Netherlands right now is in a situation where the king has to decide whether to dissolve parliament or to try to let someone else form a government. If the prime minister asks for a snap election but there is no apparent loss of confidence should the head of state refuse? Spain had a narrow margin a few years ago where both the right and left wing could plausibly claim a right to try to form the government if rejected by the Cortes then the other would have the right. British Columbia in 2017 had the same issue in a minority government with the Liberals and NDP having almost equal seat counts and neither with the majority. They might also be intended to have a few other powers like to submit legislation to a court to determine if it constitutional a power Irelands presidents have and have used a number of times since the republic. Italys president makes relatively autonomous choices about who to pardon though with a minister signing the order. Czechias president decides who to nominate to the senate to form the constitutional court. The president may be supposed to agree with any request to prorogue parliament or to set the day when it convenes or to issue state honours. They might even appoint a few senators as is the case in Italy. There might be a few positions where it is widely agreed the normal executive with the PM and ministers should not determine such as who is on the body to redraw electoral districts even in a proportional electoral system and in Germany the federal president is the one who appoints that committee. Where does a monarch get the legitimacy to make these kinds of choices? A well designed head of state perhaps elected without partisan labels on the ballot being required to withdraw from a party for the duration of their term being elected by the people or parliament or an electoral college with a runoff or ranked ballot to guarantee majority support at a minimum independence from removal arbitrarily such as in Iceland where the Althing proposes removal and a referendum decides their fate or else proposing impeachment by parliament and a high court decides on removal maybe a six or seven year term without the possibility of reelection and strong laws around ethics transparency campaign financing lobbying pay and benefits expense accounts and civil service to help support the president in a neutral manner can make these sorts of decisions with legitimacy. If the heaf of state is a monarch then it is much less legitimate for a head of state to have these powers even theoretically. If the prime minister is essentially never refused their requests for this sort of stuff then this can be a bad concentration of power in an office that should not have that degree of it. The power should flow elsewhere in clear and logical forms such as perhaps giving the parliament itself the right to decide whether it is to be dissolved or whether to seek a new formation of government as is the case in the German states which do not have a separate head of state from the prime ministership and the order in which someone is given the right to try to form the government is fixed Bulgaria and Greece do this but a monarchy could also have the same rule too or the legislature alone has the initiative as in Scotland over who should be nominated to the king for appointment as first minister. Many in Bangladesh want a theocracy and that is the reason they are opposing the current institutions. Everything I hear coming out of Bangladesh makes me wonder how bad it is going to be within a year or two. You guys had a good run but I would be surprised if Bangladesh is not worse than it is today in the next two years. I think some of it is a survivorship bias. Monarchies seem bettee because the good ones survived while the bad mornarchies didnt survive. A figurehead monarch creates a good symbol for people to rally behind even if they don’t like the rest of the government. A monarch acts as a unifying figure whos even more above disputes than the president and probably gets the country tourism money so Id say a monarch is usually slightly better. Post 28 Why is the Trump Administration not dissolving the CBO? The CBO does a great job of publishing the unvarnished fiscal impacts of proposed government spending Therefore its just the kind of thing that the courageous leaders in Washington right now would try to suppress or dissolve. How is this agency surviving? How is it being allowed to publish such bad news for the Administration? I would expect it to be a propaganda arm of the Administration by now. . This is a subreddit for genuine discussion * Please keep it civil. Report rulebreaking comments for moderator review. * Dont post low effort comments like joke threads memes slogans or links without context. * Help prevent this subreddit from becoming an echo chamber. Please dont downvote comments with which you disagree. Violators will be fed to the bear. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* The Congressional Budget Office is part of Congress. The Executive has no control whatsoever over what offices Congress does or does not maintain. In other news US civics education remains a travesty. But it isn’t part of the Executive Branch? If he could he would dissolve congress itself. Because if he can coopt it he can use it to support his own bullshit. And theres nothing more attractive to Trump than having more sycophants around him. Also its explicitly part of the Legislative branch and not technically Trumps say jack about. Not that thats stopped him from firing other people nominally under the authority of Congress instead of the Executive... Post 29 Why do people focus on unfounded rumors over policy ? Why do so many people focus on unverified personal rumors about Trump — like claims of incontinence soiling himself during rage fits or rumored drug use — instead of sticking to criticism that’s based on verifiable facts? I’ve seen this happen a lot on platforms like TikTok where people defend spreading these rumors by saying that because Trump is a bad person it doesn’t matter if the claims are unverified. Some even justify insults that veer into mocking addiction health issues or disabilities — which seems to contradict the values many people claim to support. When political discourse leans so heavily on degrading rumorbased attacks it weakens serious criticism and makes opposition look less credible. I’m curious to hear others’ thoughts does this approach actually help political opposition or does it cheapen legitimate criticism? . This is a subreddit for genuine discussion * Please keep it civil. Report rulebreaking comments for moderator review. * Dont post low effort comments like joke threads memes slogans or links without context. * Help prevent this subreddit from becoming an echo chamber. Please dont downvote comments with which you disagree. Violators will be fed to the bear. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Theres a difference between discussion about Trump the US President and Trump the Celebrity. People who indulge in rumors of incontinence or drug use or whatever are primarily interested in discussing Trump the Celebrity. Their discussion of Trump is in no way different from their discussion of P Ditty or Taylor Swift or whoever it is kids talk about today. Theyre interested in gossip for gossips sake. And if you somehow forced them to stop talking about Trump rumors theyre not going to start discussing Trump policy. Because thats not what theyre interested in. Theyre interested in gossip. Tiktok is showing you what you want to see. There are people focusing on policy but TikTok has learned youre more interested in other stuff. When political discourse leans so heavily on degrading rumorbased attacks it weakens serious criticism and makes opposition look less credible. It works for Republicans. Repeat a meme over and over again and people will begin to believe it’s true. Hell that’s how Trump himself catapulted his political career. He kept spreading rumors about Obama not being from the US and the Obama administration just ignored it until even moderates started to believe it and Obama eventually felt pressured to release his birth certificate. You’re seeing it used against Trump now because his opponents see how effectively he used it. I dont know either. seems like there would be a ton of policy shit that he can be attacked on. which seems to contradict the values many people claim to support. It separates the wheat from the chaff. or the values from the virtue signals. When political discourse leans so heavily on degrading rumorbased attacks it weakens serious criticism and makes opposition look less credible. I’m curious to hear others’ thoughts does this approach actually help political opposition or does it cheapen legitimate criticism? I think sadly it helps. Theres people on reddit still thinking there wont be elections in 2026 or 28 because of the constant threat to our democracy tag lines. and to be fair some people really thought cats and dogs were getting eaten in Springfield. Companies have marketing departments because.. they work I do think youre also right though it does cheapen legitimate criticism . but I think the type of voter that gets apathy over all the rumor based attacks is a very different type of voter than the slogan voters. Clicks/Views generate Ad revenue for the publisher. This is the business model of The Media. Ive never heard any of those theories! There is more than enough true stuff to keep me up at night! Post 30 Why do you think Musk and White House staff have shifted focus to diminish Empathy? Empathy has become a new talking point in US politics and it seems that some high level conservatives are pushing for less of it. Why do you think that is and Im curious to hear your own personal take on empathy. Also should Americans on both sides of the political isle build empathy for each others perspectives? . This is a subreddit for genuine discussion * Please keep it civil. Report rulebreaking comments for moderator review. * Dont post low effort comments like joke threads memes slogans or links without context. * Help prevent this subreddit from becoming an echo chamber. Please dont downvote comments with which you disagree. Violators will be fed to the bear. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* If I try to look at it from the perspective of a conservative I think empathy is associated with waste. I don’t believe this but conservative friends and family do Things like food stamps and disability a Republican will see them as govt paying people not to work. Empathy for minorities results in DEI efforts that they oppose because it makes white conservatives feel like they’re at a disadvantage. Empathy for other religions reduces the hold evangelical Christianity has on conservatives and might lead to people converting to other unfamiliar religions. Across the board Republicans don’t like empathy because it’s pretty impossible to have it and support their policies. My take is that should give them pause to stop and reflect on what they’ve become. When we don’t have empathy when everyone is in it for themselves society declines. Maybe fast maybe slow but there’s no way society improves without empathy. A war on empathy is a oneway street. It only leads to ruin. I hope this effort fails and we can reverse course before things get really bad. They want you to get used to not feeling sorry for any people children or others who are deported to possible or certain death. Because empathy makes it harder to target scapegoats and modern US policy is entirely about who can be scapegoated. Why else do you think theres a discussion about trans people at the national level? Its a fraction of a percent of people is just about the *last* thing the federal government should prioritize and the way theyre targeted is inherently vile to anyone who thinks for a moment about the perspective of trans people that is empathizes with them. Like . A vindictive and cruel population doesnt care. So naturally the GOP want the public to be vindictive and cruel. They can never run out of targets to hate as long as thats the case. I personally believe that it is apart of their playbook of fascism. If they can brainwash people into believing that empathy is a bad thing then it will be easier to get them to go along with future horrendous plans. I’m sure there could be another explanation that I’m over looking but that just seems to be the most obvious possibility to me. Lack of empathy is a baseline trait of conservatives and has been for a long time. Empathy = Humanizing the people around you Guess who doesnt want you to care about anyone but yourself? Why? Simple they dont have any. Its really not that complicated. When you dont have any and you dont see any value in it the only way to NOT feel like a supervillain is to ensure nobody else has any either. I think some people really believe that the road to hell has been paved with good intentions. By that I mean we’ve made irrational or illogical choices based on compassion or empathy. On some level that may be true. There could be specific examples where I could see that happening but I’m not really especially interested in that argument because we’re seeing the natural endpoint of it now and I’m not a fan. There is a big difference in saying look this may not be the most empathetic policy but it is a policy we need right now” and saying I like this policy specifically because it spites a certain group of people and hurts their feelings.” You don’t feel empathy for somebody’s viewpoints you feel empathy for people experiencing hardship. Holding a viewpoint isn’t experiencing hardship. Every mature adult should feel empathy towards those experiencing hardship whether that be the innocent Palestinians caught up in a war they want no part of or the homeless person in Kingston trying to make ends meet. Empathizing with people doesn’t mean you cater to them or are obligated to go out of your way to help them it only means you’re capable of understanding their struggles. I can empathize with the struggling single mother of 4 at the supermarket that doesn’t mean I’m obligated to involve myself in her situation. Anybody calling for less empathy is a calloused individual and should seek therapy. Because they are sociopathic fascists. They dont undetstand or believe in empathy. One way transactional loyalty. Also should Americans on both sides of the political isle build empathy for each others perspectives? You should try to have empathy with the people and understand why they hold the perspectives that they do but you absolutely do not need to empathize with their perspectives directly. I can try to empathize with what is leading someone to blame LGBT individuals and immigrants for somehow causing their capitalismdriven problems without giving any comfort to their bigotry itself. Opposing empathy is the core belief of the right. Greed is good The Fable of the Bees and all that. We should have empathy for other perspectives but specifically dividing Americans into sides is part the problem. Conservatives have always lacked empathy. It’s the underlying appeal of the entire thing. Empathy is literally the thing that holds a healthy society together. Anyone who says otherwise is either extremely ignorant or outright evil. Theyve reached the limit of what they can do while pretending to be reciprocal with their bullshit so they need some new mental gymnastics to not feel like the bad guys. Because empathy counteracts their agenda which is culturally glorified cruelty. We know that in Trumps life growing up displays of empathy were considered a sign of weakness. This has been documented. Trump is a borderline sociopath who cannot feel empathy. It is probably the same for Musk. Musks father was abusive and Musk has called him a terrible human being. Being a rich white person in a racist society may have helped shape Musks personality too although his drug use may also be a contributing factor. Both Trump and Musk have shown authoritarian tendencies and are obviously racists. Empathy is just not a big part of their character. Shifted? Making a mockery of caring for other humans experiences has been the open goal of the Republican Party for 15 or so years Without empathy it is easier to do inhumane things to people. It is easier to dehumanize enemies. It is easier to rule by fear. It is easier to force fascism / authoritarianism onto the country. They really don’t like paying taxes. If a couple of million must die to shave a couple points off the ol tax bill thats a sacrifice they are willing to make. Theyre just being honest for once. The policies being inacted are nothing new but were just unworkable because they lacked support. Now that Trump has most of the right in his pocket he can do whatever he wants. Or whatever the highest bidder wants. Republicans have always been incapable of feeling empathy. That’s specifically what makes them Republicans in the first place. Empathy is the glue of civilization. People without it are incredibly dangerous Ruthlessness has become popular these days. Ruthless is the opposite of empathy. I think it started with Reality TV where Americans started seeing people the same way they saw sports teams and not only celebrating victories for the people they supported but deriving genuine pleasure from the failures of people they did not support as well. I have never been comfortable with ruthlessness. But then I was never comfortable watching reality TV either. Musk and Trump are both sociopaths who are unable to see the intrinsic value in people who arent themselves. All they see in other people is what those people could do for them. Because they lack empathy and they believe themselves to be superior males theyre pushing to devalue empathy in our society because theyre obviously correct while everyone else is wrong. Empathy is also what makes people fight for others. For instance people standing up to ICE when ICE tries to grab someone off the street or people from one industry protesting with folks from another industry in order to help them get better working conditions etc. Those kinds of actions run counter to the stripmining that Musk and Trump want to do to the United States economic sector. Trump clearly lacks empathy on a personal level and you cant idolize him or his policies without casting empathy aside. Thats the core of it. To reduce the outrage that happens when they are revealed to be committing atrocities drug abuser psychopathic sadistic narcissists don’t have the ability to have empathy that applies esp to the Rump Stephen Miller Musk and the billionaire boys the drug use compounds the lack of normal brain function Ayn Rand has had a considerable impact on American conservatism. She crafted a philosophy based upon the idea that narcissism is a virtue. The Nazis embraced Social Darwinism. Empathy needed to be crushed replaced with a pecking order built on might making right. The Hitler Youth had group activities that encouraged the strong to punish the weak psychological preparation for going to war and following orders. Empathy is an expression of conscience. Conscience can derail authoritarianism so it poses a threat. I think that bashing bleeding heart liberals is actually a very old and longstanding tradition. In fact I think that the most consistent part of conservatism is the belief that compassion is bad because it is an emotional argument but that fear and anger are rooted in logic. Core element of Christian Nationalism. Empathy has always been diminished as you put it. Joe Rigney teaches that satan corrupts through compassion. I remember seeing a video not too long ago of someone interviewing a Moms For Liberty maniac. This woman was upset that the concept of empathy was being taught in her kids school. She said something like first they say theyre just teaching empathy but before you know it they are telling kids that they should accept that its ok if some people are gay.. Theyre literally opposed to widening their or their kids narrow world view. These people are deranged sociopaths. **Empathy costs money.** At bottom it really is that simple. If youre wealthy and you live in a society that cares about the welfare of the average person youre gonna wind up paying taxes. So empathy is a financial loss. If you want to keep more of your money its got to go. See also * Justice costs money so theyre against justice. * Democracy costs money so theyre against democracy. * Fairness costs money so theyre against fairness. * Courts cost money so theyre against the courts. * Equality costs money so theyre against equality. * Due process costs money so theyre against due process. * News media cost money so theyre against the media. * Science costs money so theyre against science. * Voting costs money so they want to close the polls. * Alliances cost money so theyre against alliances. * Actual Christian values cost money so theyre against Christ while pretending to be more Christian than anybody. * Tolerance costs money so theyre against tolerance. * Peace costs money so theyre prowar. * Regulations cost money so theyre against regulations. * Pollution controls cost money so theyre propollution. * Curbing climate change costs money so drill baby drill. Because theyre assholes. They want to cut funding for poor people so they can become richer assholes. Feeling bad about that makes cutting funding harder thus they want to eliminate empathy. They can push all they wantand itll work a bit... but people are born with it and it cant be shut off to the degree needed to succeed with their nihilistic agenda When conservatives say they want less empathy they mean less empathy for those not part of the tribe. Musk himself expects lots of empathy for himself and Trump as many of his reactions to Tim Walzs approving of the failures of Musks businesses indicate. People who say they want less empathy are not saying less empathy for their group they are saying less empathy for the other. They want less empathy for whatever group gets unlucky enough to get othered for scapegoating purposes. If you don’t care about other people you don’t care when strangers are treated with a lack of humanity. Because they have low empathy so they dont get it and see it as a weakness. Some of them are straight up sociopaths and narcissists. They think if someone is in need of empathy they are a loser. Biden has cancer...loser! Granny needs a nursing home...loser! Your house was taken out by a hurricane...loser! divide and conquer has been a strategy of class warfare since the beginning of time. They want to cut taxes and social services and they want to enrich their businesses with government contracts and deregulation. All that pillaging harms people and they don’t want people talking about harm or feelings or perspectives. It’s one of many tactics for obfuscating their greedy destructive actions. Because it is the United States normal. Do you think this country managed to have slaves and Jim Crow by portraying people as equal and deserving of empathy? Even other groups like Jews Chinese Irish etc werent considered deserving of it until it became political convenient. People want to rally against a not us they can understand and is cause of their problems. This is just yet another branch of the classic us vs. them for easy political power and distraction of their short comings. Empathy is *the* core human virtue. It makes society possible. Telling people to have less empathy is the most antisocial thing I can imagine. Empathy is something that fills our lives and connects us with those around us. It spurs us to be social to connect and help our. It is moments of empathy which enrich our lives the most. With that said a person has to have other things besides empathy they must also have the common sense not to allow their empathy to run away with them. Give a guy $20 but dont sign over the deed to your house. But this isnt having less empathy its having empathy *and* something else like common sense and self interest. Its part of the dehumanization of the other. Either a result of it or purposely done to dehumanize. It is exactly how the Nazis did it with the Jews. They have empathy only for themselves and their tribe. This is a cancer that needs to be weeded out. Anyone who believes that this can be moderated or fixed needs to understand the amount of work that had to go into rebuilding Germany especially the population. They basically had to give up on the older generation and just start with the kids. Only 6% of the German people took responsibility for the actions of the Nazi party at the end of the war. 42% said it was a small minority 32% said NO ONE WAS GUILTY!d These people who are full on facist magas most likely will never change and will only get worse. It needs to be stamped out by any means necessary. These people need to be completely cut off and ostracized by society. If they have their way it will take the rest of the world to put us down. they are desperately trying to normalize bad behavior. but not simply bad behavior....criminal behavior. and getting reedy the normalize war crimes. this is EXACTLY what the Nazis did. for the exact same reasons. In my experience most people who frequently use the word empathy including in this thread do not understand what it means. Its not being nice. Its not caring for others. Those things tend to stem naturally from empathy for obvious reasons but they are distinct. It is *the ability to see things from anothers perspective*. I would argue that a distinct lack of empathy is a problem basically across the board for our political leadership. The shortage is certainly more acute on the right but it is in short supply on the left too. The main difference is that the left aspires to empathy but is confused about what it is often mistaking paternalistic sympathy for it while the right openly disdains it. low levels of empathy for anyone that doesnt look like you has always been a fundamental but often unspoken pillar of conservative politics. but like everything else now even propaganda has gotten dumber and less sophisticated My wife and I are both federal workers this administration has made our life hell. They can empathize with my hairy smelly ball sack... They think it shows weakness. Enlightened folks know better. Empathy is the beginning of wisdom. Increased empathy has led to tolerance for groups they don’t like. While issues of race and gender equality have been long running conflicts out in the open things like LGBTQ+ issues have been more hidden away. The rapid social advancement and acceptance of those issues probably felt like it came out of nowhere within their more homogenous social circles and thus a threat to their identity. MAGA is a very conservative male ideology in which dominance is the apex cultural value. It sees the gains of women and nonwhite people as coming at their expense and not as what in reality was an erosion of social constructed barriers. As a group their failings can never be their own fault or a consequence of the decisions they have made. They need someone or something to blame and empathy is a barrier to that. A psychologist who interviewed Nazis after the war concluded that the one trait they all shared was a lack of empathy and that the nature of evil was that lack. Do a Google search for the concept of toxic empathy. Its basically that. As others have said they basically think that empathy is weakness and empathy requires helping other people and that goes against people helping themselves. Empathy means sacrificing something you have and they presume worked hard for and to give that up to someone else implying that someone else is undeserving. Theyre psychopaths who want their base to fear thus hate other people easiest way to do that? Have zero empathy for others. Think about it. Trump is a billionaire capitalist. He is brainwashing people to accept the terrible treatment of the working class even at their own detriment! Anyone who supports getting rid of empathy is shooting themselves in the head unless they are vastly wealthy because there will be no empathy for them either. Empathetic people generally vote left. The whole human emancipation project of the left is founded upon empathy and a capacity to put yourself in other peoples shoes. This is completely antithetical to right wing dogmas of proftoverpeople mecentered zero sum thinking the conservative insistence on a rigid social hierarchy that conveniently cements their privileged position etc. while instituting exploitation eco destruction and waste as just a part of doing business. You wont hold these positions if you are an empathetic person.a The capacity for empathy is also fostered by a liberal education that exposes us to a variety of perspectives and world views a nuanced understanding of history an exposure to a wide scope of human thought culture and creative endeavour origin myths explorations of our human condition etc. So it is no coincidence that this is exactly why liberal arts colleges and universities are being threatened by this administration if they dont restrict the scope of their academic discourse. Or why black and queer achievements are being scrubbed from public institutions. Its why woke was seized upon and became this pajorative smear against anyone expressing solidarity with marginalized people. Its all an attempt to control historys narrative. The first casualties of Fascism are always artists writers educators and journalists. people who give a voice to the exploited that is foster empathy and people and who will speak truth to power and provide the narrative of our times. Empathy is what separates progressives from conservatives. Without the ability to understand and care for the suffering of others people tend to fall down the path of conservatism and hurt people they see as different. So naturally conservatives that want others to agree with their belief system will naturally see empathy as an obstacle to their goals It’s just another way for them to redefine the terms of their own hateasstrength macho bullshit. Ultimately it’s a weak tactic to try and cast empathy as a weakness. This is all tied up in the misogynist idea that empathy is not a desirable trait because it runs counter to capitalism’s demand for power and control. Evolution even survival of our species depends on cooperation and collaboration which in turn depend on empathy. And selfawareness is the beginning of empathy. Bc they are a bunch of monsters who love suffering. I hope they enjoy their time in HE double hockey sticks They lack it and they dont give a flying f___K about anyone except themselves. Wealth and greed and screw everyone. They think it’s unnecessary as they have none &amp they see it as making people weak. They don’t want their subjects as weak. They really want to compel Gates to give his billions to them instead of africa. always summed it up well for me Republicans are well known for being tribal for their own group and no empathy to anyone unless they are directly impacted. If they care affected then they are shocked. Psychopaths lack empathy. The less of it we feel the more comfortable well be with the actions of the one in charge. Because empathy creates awareness and if too many people in their cult are aware of the pain they cause people theres a chance they might turn away from it. Empathy is part of intelligence. The more you have the clearer things are. Empathy is a positive personality trait. Anyone telling you to have less of it is actively telling you to be a worse human being. They are bad people and I feel bad for them. Because theyre aiming to start cutting more and more social and medical services and push more and more bills and policies that oppress demographics they hate and organizations that support them with the encouragement of the supposedly oppressed christians of this country to agree with it under their beliefs on top of this. This is libertarianism unleashed. Because libertarian aims and ideals only work if people lose empathy for others I have a lot of empathy. Yes I like little kids laughing I rescued animals I give money to poor I help my neighbors. I’m a human that cares IF others HURT! But do you? Because empathy gets in the way of their to be frank antihuman goals. They want to cause people harm with impunity they don’t want you whining about it making them feel bad. They want to celebrate death and pain and empathy is a wet blanket that smothers their sick revelry. So they label it ‘sin.’ I ain’t even exaggerating Joni Ernst talking ‘bout we’re all going to die” with a shiteating grin on her face when asked about millions losing their healthcare then doubles down with a ‘y’all need Jesus.’ Hospitals will close across the country thousands will prematurely die preventable deaths and everyone’s quality of care will be affected even those with private insurance so that billionaires can pay trillions *less* in taxes and this demon in human skin has the audacity and arrogant pride to invoke the name of her famously antigreed feedthepoor lord in vanity. Pride is one of the seven deadly sins and ‘don’t say the lord’s name in vain is one of the Ten Commandments while we’re on the subject of sins. We should always try to be more empathetic. More perspectives lead to more understanding. The opposite of an empathetic heart is an evil one. The only perspective that shouldn’t be considered is the intolerant one. I do think its social media and echo chambers. Having a constant loop of your own opinions and interests really drives the us vs them feelings. And yes i do think empathy is necessary to build a functioning political coalition in America If you want a genuine answer to this google the term weaponized empathy. That will give you the view the other side has on the lefts tactics of relying on empathy to undermine their way of life. If you are in the public service which includes government offices empathy is the most baseline of prerequisites. Not just for your voter base but for the people you represent. You are there to SERVE THE PUBLIC. Why are you serving the public if you have no empathy for the public/people you serve? Immigration has issues. Blanket deportation is a bandaid and diminished empathy is how they justify it. Immigration is a complete shitshow in this country. 3 year wait times to renew a 2 year green card = lol. As someone who’s dealt with USCIS took a spouse from overstay to citizenship that org needs to be reinvented. They built a story around how society is falling apart. They linked it to minorities of all groups and how caring for them is a major part of our economic and moral decline. Now they have the support of millions who have had economic hardships who devoutoy believe its the fault of immigrants transgender women getting abortions etc. Its a platform built on the American Dream ... work hard and buy a house. A twisted reality but its been effective. Attack empathy and you completely ruin the platform that the Democrats have run on for 80+ years. Because Trump ran on and won on a lack of empathy. They tried compassionate conservativism it got them 2008 and 2012 election Ls. Trump won based on got mine better get yours. Because people that are uneducated and/or angry are easier to fool and control. Fascists do not like empathy because their methods are about control and punishment and harm to those that oppose them. Empathy creates problems for authoritarian regimes so its wise to cut it out as much as possible from all ranks of the government. Empathy is a buzzword. Voting to force other people to donate to charity on your behalf doesn’t make you a good person. Empathy is now a sin if I recall from the blowback from Bishop Buddes sermon that dared to preach to Trump about empathy Removing empathy from decisionmaking makes every decision easier and more predictable. The behaviors being targeted by those in power are more easily targeted and demonized while the powerful neednt explain as much because of the demonization. Circular but effective. The Alpha Male complex. The strange thing is that all these evil MAGAs proclaim their Christian.....but along with antiempathy go against all of the tenets of the Christian faith. Theyre seriously broken people. Not sure what to do. I would suggest people read up on The sin of empathy that has taken over with a lot of baptsits churches in america. A TLDR of the belief is that excessive empathy leads to a focus on suffering over biblical truth. It is a massive steaming pile of BS but people buy it. Since the bible belt is a strong voting block within the Republican party and some of those major donors preach this belief Musk and Trump go along with it. The fact it is also helpful with accomplishing their goals is just icing on the cake. Empathy is what will allow you to vote for higher taxes that would potentially be used to help those that are unable to provide for themselves or are less fortunate. The republican political mantra has always been that people who are suffering or have a hard time choose to live that way so therefore it is their fault. They want the empathy to go away so that their have public approval to remove social safety net programs for the country. this is only the logical conclusion of neoconservative philosophy. Donald Trump only put their project on warp speed. Empathy seems to be a synonym for give things to people with a sob story but definitely do not evaluate the efficacy or opportunity cost of doing so”. They dont want to diminish empathy they want to increase empathy for heterosexual Caucasian males. Same way they say immigration is bad but roll out the red carpet for white South Africans. I believe many of the issues we are seeing are reminiscent of the timeless battle *Person A wants a dog Person B wants a cat so they’ll compromise and get a dog*.” Ultimately it’s people who think they know better doing whatever they need to do to guide/create society towards their preferred design. Unfortunately hyper focus on ruthless efficiency often does indeed get the results however those who fall into that camp often by choice or inherently are drastically lacking in the empathy department. This is why we are seeing and will continue to see the unfortunate rise of the Dark Enlightenment. Because at a minimum they are all sociopaths and therefore have no empathy!!! Empathy is an emotion. Policy should be made based off of logic. Sure on a human level you can empathize with someone’s situation but policies shouldn’t be made on that. Post 31 Is Trump a symptom or the root cause of the deepening political polarization in America? Polarization has always been characteristic of American politics. Especially with our twoparty system its nearly inevitable that opposing parts of the political spectrum will collide at one point or another. The last decade however saw political polarization in the U.S. reach new heights. What changed? America met Donald Trump. After Trump came along it was obvious that the days of friendly political rivalry notably like that of Barack Obama and John McCain were over. Trump quickly built a reputation for being ruthless against his opponents spewing lies and other rethoric to put them whenever possible. But this paled in comparison to the attack on the Capitol Building on January 6 an event which arguably marked the peak of modern U.S. political division. And it didnt stop there. As president Trumps aggressive conduct and authoritative approach to power continue to amplify the tensions in American politics. So is Trump simply a symptom of the deepening political polarization in America? Did he just capitalize on division that was already brewing? Or is he the root cause of this division? In a postTrump era could American politics ever return to friendly and respectful competition? Can we depolarize without addressing the issues that led to Trumps success in the first place? . This is a subreddit for genuine discussion * Please keep it civil. Report rulebreaking comments for moderator review. * Dont post low effort comments like joke threads memes slogans or links without context. * Help prevent this subreddit from becoming an echo chamber. Please dont downvote comments with which you disagree. Violators will be fed to the bear. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Trump is the culmination of whats sometimes called and this has been building up for some time. It may have accelerated recently with the fragmentation of our media ecosystem but you can find the thread throughout the history of the country including early antimasonic conspiracy theories the KnowNothings McCarthyism the John Birch Society etc. Personally I trace the recent problems back to the 90s with Rush Limbaugh and Newt Gingrich but Im biased because thats when I started really paying attention to politics. Older people might trace it back further Reagan Goldwater etc. He’s both. The fact that he was ever able to be successful at all and hold any appeal to any audience in the first place is a symptom but once he got the spotlight his brazen and shameless disregard for decency integrity or even objective reality outstrips anything his conservative lapdogs ever imagined they could possibly get away with and has accelerated their shift to more extreme fascism. He’s a catalyst that is fueling further descent into bigotry as his fans feel more emboldened than they might have with a more restrained figurehead in charge. Most definitely a symptom. The polarization began when the Nixon administration started tapping evangelicals as a base after losing the segregation fight. Even more polarizing was when Reagan ditched the Fairness Doctrine and gutted financial regulations. Pushed further by the Clintons and pushing the mythos of the welfare queens and super predators then further with GW Bush and anti Muslim sentiment and homeland security and further with Obama and anti immigration and now here we are fully split among fascist and anti fascist with a lot more breaks in between I’d go symptom like if cancer was growing out of your neck. he’s the equivalent of the least common denominator of America a failed education system and an socioeconomic system that rewards the greediest of us. Id say hes a catalyst. The divisions were already happening Trump is a demagogue who took advantage to gain power. I think he is a symptom in that there has been a growing strain of dissatisfaction and even anger that he was able to tap into. However I think he is an accelerant too stoking flames of resentment providing targets to blame and profiting off all of that. Perhaps if he hadn’t come along less destructive reform could have grown from the people’s need for change. Trump is a symptom of the narcissistic selfish hateful American personality disorder that so many are afflicted with. Social media and the rise of targeted information have also contributed to the political polarization. Both. I agree with Robert Reich who has been making the case for decades that inequality is the main problem in America. Weve become a country of haves and have nots. Middle class is shrinking. When the system fails for you and you cant get by or buy a home or afford a family or worse afford to take care of your family including basic healthcare all bets are off. Youre willing to burn the system down. Megalomaniacs like Trump prosper in this situation and fan the flames. They need a scapegoat. The Republican Party is the cancer and trump is that cancer metastasized. So he’s both. Trump has turned the basket of deplorables into 40% of America. Both sad and unbelievable. Hello! Its both. These things feed into each other. Fox news pushes them further to the right they rewrd Fox news with eyeballs so Fox news keeps going. It got to the point where Fox started losing viewership due to networks that were even more right wing so Fox started pushing harder. They ended up being sued by Dominion for like 800 million dollars over that. Trump won because people are polarised and he further polarized the nation. Heres what I think but its hard to prove without a time machine or being able to guess what Trump will say next which is impossible but heres what I think If you could ask MAGA about an issue before Trump brings it up and then after Trump brings it up I truly believe youd see a huge disparity. Like if before Trump ever mentioned Greenland if you had asked MAGA how theyd feel about taking Greenland theyd say thats insane what are you talking about. But then Trump mentions it and theyre all on board. I think thats how it would be with all the crazy shit they support that Trump says. So hes driving them further and further to insanity. But he also needed them to be insane to win in the first place. These things feed into each other. You might notice they struggle to draw any red lines around trump sometimes. Like if you ask them what it would take to stop supporting trump. the reason they cant draw the line is because they want to draw it some place he wont go but who the fuck knows where he wont go. A symptom in the same way that alcohol is a symptom of the underlying disease of addiction. Having been born in 1959 I still cant wrap my head around the fact that half the country is perfectly okay with becoming an isolationist fascist country and a pariah on the world stage. This is definitely not the country I grew up in. Both. Polarization has been happening for a long time. Trump is currently actively deepening it. Prior to Trump Presidential candidates for both parties abided by the political norms and unwritten rules that have existed for around a century and in large part attempted not to accelerate this polarization. Whether they did that out of a desire to depolarize the country or for their own selfserving interest in continuing their political career can be debated but is largely irrelevant as it is unknowable anyway. Trump does not abide any unwritten rules and has thrown away many of the written ones. He uses political polarization as a weapon to attack political enemies and as a shield against his own corruption. So while he didnt start it he is effectively the current cause. Smoking might be the original reason that you developed lung cancer but lung cancer is now the root cause of whats killing you. Lung cancer is the thing that needs to be dealt with. From afar your voting system seems to be the root cause of the problem with your democracy. Fix that and the US could be anything assuming you keep elections. Americans are living in two different realities they are able to exist in echo chambers where they are never exposed to the other side whatsoever. He cannot be the cause. The issue of political polarization has been prevalent since the country was founded and the winner takes all nature of our elections makes anything other than a 2 party system difficult. Trump is very good at perpetuating extremely divisive rhetoric which serves to exacerbate this divide. He proves that a grave number of people have horrible intentions and would do awful things to complete strangers for the thrill of the kill whenever opportunity allows them to do so even if it harms their own interests or the well being of their own children Symptom. Trump is the political embodiment of racist entitlement that persists since the Civil War. Generations of families who believe they are still being victimized by the extension of civil rights to a lesser class of human beings. Conservatism in American politics is nothing more than a deepseated desire to return to the class orientations of the days of chattel slavery. Symptom I recall an incident from the 08 campaign when John McCain was doing a town hall in Iowa. An elderly woman with the microphone in hand asked McCain about Obama not being born in the US and while McCain was taking the microphone away he answered no he was a good man with a good family we just happen to disagree on some issues. Who could have known then that that old hag was the future of the republican party. A symptom. The cause is a group of people who would do anything to prevent America from being held accountable for its actions. Trump is a response to racist backlash towards Obama. He isn’t the cause he’s the result. MAGA is a cult and Trump is a cancer folks would be more reasonable without him. The game plan was intimated though not fully formulated in the Powell Memo. This was free market corporate greedy peoples declaration of war against the government of the people for the people by the people tail end of New Deal Era... who they believed were attacking our economy...money and greed vs. the anathema that is what sort of a country the *people* want. They quickly put aside shame and hitched that wagon to the waning/maturing?? Southern Strategy The first wave was scrapping the Fairness Doctrine and freeing up the airwaves for corporateowned/highlycontrolled right wing a.m. hate radio...saturating the heartland ever since. Stuff like Limbaugh...and now Hannity just stopping short of screaming KILLLL THEMMM ALLLLL OR BEEEEE KILLLLED... Wave two was Karl the architect Roves wedge strategies explicitly intended to divide the country and Gingrich making ALL of politics a zerosum game normilizing congressional rancor and impasse the likes of which we hadnt seen scince the run up to the civil war. Citizens United was the next move if not coupe de grace cementing political power to wealth and further making propaganda limited only by wealth...and speech a privilege of wealth. Reading that ruling still blows my mind. WTF Then came the new wave of wealthy barons...the tech bro billionaires...who quickly found how easy it is to control the masses with social media algorithms and now AI... ...these tech bros fancy themselves Uber mensch masters of the universe. They want absolute control of everything and everyone. They are trying to destroy everything that they cannot control. The MAGA hoopleheads thier brown shirt pawns Trump convinced the dumbest people in the USA that they should be in charge forever. That is a problem. Trump is a useful idiot. He is not a cause or the symptom. He’s just a cult of personality pawn the right is using to reach their goals. Hes the cause. Anyone saying hes a symptom is just trying to pass the buck of blame and act like someone like Trump was always inevitable. The truth is thats 100% bullshit. Trump is uniquely responsible for the degradation of civility in our politics and for trampling on so many established norms and previously shared American values. He is 100% to blame and he was never inevitable. We are the sum of our choices and the country made the wrong choice twice in electing him. The hes just a symptom talk has been used to absolve him of blame for his psychopathic and criminal behaviors but even if he never accepts responsibility for anything I will always hold him responsible. I agree with both. A lot of long term setting things up started long before Trump. Trump fulfilled their dreams by being as awful as he is. The root cause is the failure of the Reconstruction of the south after the Slaveholders Rebellion. Everything traces back to that failure. Both but I’m leaning towards symptom. Someone else would fill his shoes if he never ran. We don’t know who but someone inevitably would wake up about 1/4 of the population that never voted and convince them a billionaires interests are their own. Sad but true Trump is only as popular as he is because of the fact people are the way they are. Hes just a symptom. Why not both? The causes that led to Trump were there and had been there for decades and a Trump figure would have taken advantage of that. But Trump himself is as much a catalyst as he is an accelerant. He ‘s divisive by design. And as a response to an inert political body a cathartic release from the Tea Party era. Symptum fer sure. Began with Barry Goldwater for whom I rang doorbells and passed out fliers getting 27million votes to dismantle everything that benefited the bottom 90%. Then LBJ destroyed his legacy and the credibility of the Democratic Party by lying us into Vietnam. That got us Nixon who further destroyed peoples faith in Government and eliminated the military draft which was the only glue left for cementing us together as one Nation. Carter should have revived our faith in Government but the accumulated effects of LBJ and Nixons decades of monetizing the National Debt collapsed the economy and Jimmys decency was no match for 4 years of 9.9% inflation and we got Reagan who completed the destruction of the middle class with hIs tax scams ending revenue sharing killing the Fairness doctrine and tripling of the National Debt. Trump is POTUS because his followers know they havent gotten a real raise since 1981 they cannot afford to send their kids to college or save for their own retirement every aspect of our infrastructure is falling apart from city streets to our national parks and ONLY Trump stood up and said I CAN FIX THIS. Trump gave no plans for HOW hed fix it there are none but the notion hed try was a better deal than the Dems could offer. The cause was Sherman not going far enough and for the north ending reconstruction too early. Seriously the southerners were not mature enough for reconstruction to end If ever there was a root cause he fits the bill. There would be no MAGA without him only a bunch of bitchy little Republicans pointing fingers at the Democrats. This SFB has ignited the moronic stupidity in people too weakminded to resist it and you see where we are today in the middle of the biggest shitshow on earth being led by an.orange buffoon. The Republican Party as an institution is a major part of the issue they openly and intentionally are planning fascism/an end to democracy in America. debatably the existence of nondemocracy workplaces and the fact that necessities are not public goods allow ppl to get infinite wealth which inevitably leads to them trying to pay and lobby ppl to get their interests passed via legislation which could be seen as an even deeper root cause than just the Republican Party intentionally trying to trick ppl into thinking they’re antielite” while just flamethrowering minorities socially. But even for those deeper issues the GOP are the guardians of the true elite. Until the dems become sincere left populists the country is doomed for the near future trump’s appeal is just a symptom. We could ask why is it so easy to convince ppl that there’s a severe problem and that we need a strong change?” The dems would say bc trump and repubs are so wild and goofy and evil!” But the truth is probably closer to bc u rly are being fcked by elites just that republicans pretend these elites are cabals or trans immigrants when they’re just the tiny group of ppl who own and profit off everything” Edit downvoting doesn’t change what science and sociology research show about human behavior in groups and how they behave in 2 opposing groups or when ingroup/outgroup mentality is involved. This is not some wild response. It’s literally just saying what research indicates. If you disagree I’m curious why. —— The polarization is due to bipartisanship. Separation into 2 groups with an us vs them” mentality almost inevitably leads to each group experiencing echo chambers group think worsened individual confirmation bias group polarization and a bunch of other toxic traits that mean people behave less ethically rationally and logically due to ingroup/outgroup thinking. Polarization is exacerbated over time and extremism is the nearly inevitable result. Trump could have never existed in this world and MAGA would just be going by another name they’re the easiest current example but I’m saying both groups are prone to it in one way or another. So no Trump makes a bad problem worse and makes it worse faster but the result was inevitable. A country built on the concept of unity with mottos like E PLURIBUS UNUM and one nation” while setting up 2 opposing primary parties was doomed to experience this form of catastrophic failure. And even if this crisis blows over it will only repeat in the future so long as only 2 major parties exist unless significant changes are made in how representatives *must* interact. Symptom. People want the rigged system changed. We want to stop promoting greed and that the other side is bad. Their hasnt been true competition in the market in forever. Were sick of the facade and the status quo. We have so many addicts and alcoholics because people are disillusioned from the society we live in. Either being a victim or a perpetrator of the system. They can see thru the bs of the world dont see destroying everyone around them to prove their better as a way to happiness. Their idealists yes. So were hippies in the 70s now those hippies that joined and swore to change it change society became accustomed to the greedy dirty lifestyle. They get hooked and before they know it their 80 y.o with no one that likes you. Having not changed a thing and call us idealist and well see one day. SCREW THAT! Lets change the world. They claim the solution to addiction is radical acceptance just accept the world for how it is and dont try changing it. No you or me cant but WE can. Break the victim mentality were Americans the greatest country in the world. We need Democrats to wake up from the ccp manipulation and drop the donor class. These rich ppl can vote but get out of the way of progress theyve been undermining democracy for a while. When was the last time anyone had say in who gets nominated besides the richest ppl in America with greedy interests and foreign backed donors looking to influence America. Thats not by the people for the people. Thats for the rich by the rich. For a proper democracy the two parties need to balance values. They shouldnt represent the same institutions.. Who #representsthepeople Polarization has been caused by the billionaire class unwilling to be regulated or to pay taxes so they used their money to fund think tanks like Heritage Cato &amp other institutions to produce propaganda to split the country with help from Reagan &amp Murdock. He first considered running for president in 1985. He waited until America deteriorated to the point he became acceptable. Not a catalyst. Trump is the problem. Major dude is trumps undercover white power privileged. He won’t say it but that’s the truth. This is why many red states and the extreme Maga love him. People thinks he loves all America. Yea right Friendly rivalries? Like Obamas hes a creepy mormon who hates women and dogs campaign in 2012? This whole thing is bizarrely onesided blind to the genuine actions of Democrats and activists cancel culture the excesses of MeToo and BLM the creeping censorship across all of social media that proliferated in the 2010s clearly done at the behest of Democratic demographics at the cost of young mens ability to express themselves etc. Its very easy to play make believe and ignore half the story as you have chosen to do. But you cant feign genuine interest in how we got to this point after doing so. No one here remembers the battle for the soul of the nation” speech. Trump’s polarizing though? Okay. Perhaps we look in the mirror every once in a while. Its a long term plan. Lets not talk about the overt 24/7 propaganda machine of the MurdochMuskSinclair media oligarchy for regurgitating Putins Russian misinformation nonstop and promoting Trump. Putin is the former head of propaganda at the KGB and has been implementing the KGBs 50 year Great Brainwashing plan to defeat the US. The fascists are towards the end of the Stage 2 Demoralization Phase of their 4 stage plan. Here is a link to an interview with a KGB defector who laid out their plan to defeat America without firing a shot. Read this and watch the embedded YT video. Takes two sides and as long as both sides demonize the other sides voters as being ignorant nazis communists or any other number of insults while continuing to line their pockets with tax foreign and insider trader money there is not much hope. There are no political parties anymore. Stop believing the news and internet. We are not divided. They want us divided for more control. Trump is more divisive than any politician ever so he is the 4th branches chosen divider. He plays the political game better than any non career politician maybe ever. Symptom. Media and social media giving everyone a platform is pushing everyone further and further into extreme left/right views along with giving credence to conspiracies. Makes sense why people with farleft views don’t mesh with people with farright. If you’re looking for the root cause it’s the urban/rural divide that exists between Americans mixed with a shrinking middle class and fueled by media. Symptom. First day of saying he was going to run was the day the every left leaning view went ape shit and made shit up every single day since then. They caused all the issue with everything since 2016 Post 32 Should Religion Be Out of Politics? Throughout history religion has played a major part in politics but now that we are in 2025 and most nations have diversified people largely in the west its starting to become less sustainable or good to enforce religious beliefs on others via politics. Should religion stay out of politics? . This is a subreddit for genuine discussion * Please keep it civil. Report rulebreaking comments for moderator review. * Dont post low effort comments like joke threads memes slogans or links without context. * Help prevent this subreddit from becoming an echo chamber. Please dont downvote comments with which you disagree. Violators will be fed to the bear. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Politics is to some extent an application of morality and morality is quite often informed by religion but if you cant make a secular argument for a political position then it should probably not be adopted. Yes. Good idea everywhere but in the US it is embedded in the Constitution that elected officials are sworn to defend The U.S. Constitutions First Amendment prohibits the government from establishing a religion and guarantees the free exercise of religion forming the basis for the separation of church and state. There is a common misunderstanding that religion plays or should play no role in politics. It is impossible for an individual of faith to not consider their faith when voting talking to legislators or being a legislator or otherwise shaping public policy. This kind of faith action is not forcing ones faith on another. Where the line should be and is for the most part drawn is any particular faith having an official role within government. Thus we have no religious tests for example. Should religion stay out of politics? Yes religion should stay out of politics. There is no positive example of religion in politics where citizens of all faiths are treated equally. That can only happen in a secular society. I prefer a government that works for all of its citizens agnostic of faith ethnicity class education etc. Baker barber banker bum treat em all the same. Throughout history people were not free. They were ruled at the whim of royalty or theocrats. You cannot have personal liberty when governed by people who don’t answer to the people or the law but rather claim to speak for or even first answer to god. Nearly every religion espouses an absolute yet unprovable truth that mandates indoctrinating or exterminating the opposition at all costs. There is no future for freedom if religion and politics are permitted to intertwine. People gravitate towards structure of morals. Religion is a moral structure. The question is less if religion should be removed from politics and more of should specific religious texts and interpretations be used as a primary compass for writing law. When something is subjective like religion it should not be used as a definitive moral law. Religion can serve as a tool for good and build communities centered around aiding the less fortunate and down trodden. It can be used to preach acceptance and respect. What we in the West tend to see in the media is religion used as a means of exclusion and division. If one dedicates their life to aiding those in need and says it is their mission from their god Im fine with that being their political campaign as long as there are no exclusions for identity. As it is? Get it the hell out. As it could be? Im open to it being involved. Religion can’t be out” of politics—it’s simply inevitable that the two intertwine at some point. Despite our best efforts ex. the Constitution and its prohibition of government establishing a religion religion is just as much a part of if not more significant in our lives as politics—and often our political beliefs are influenced by our moral standings standings that can be based in religious truths. For example many Republicans specifically those who are evangelical Christians or Catholics oppose abortion because of their interpretation of the Bible’s teachings about the sanctity of life I do not identify as Christian so please correct me if I’m wrong. [deleted] It’s probably not possible to keep religion and politics because religion informs so many peoples worldview so strongly. But you should keep religion out of what gets actually passed into law. That said organized religion should be forced to choose between political participation and tax exemption. If they want to get political then they should lose their tax exempt status. Which is the way it’s supposed to work but it’s incredibly difficult to enforce. The Republican party built itself as the party of Jesus. You cant blame religion for being kidnapped by politics. Religious arguments for policies should be supplemental to secular arguments. Religious arguments alone leads to increase us vs themisms Of course it should. If ones moral ruleset comes from a book of tales I dont think that person could ever be a good politician. I mean that person could suddenly find another book stating the opposite than the first book and by definition the persons moral compass would shift 180 degrees. If you agree with a thing with some religion thats ok. You have made that opinion about that matter by yourself you have not copied a ruleset. At least thats what Jesus thought if we are to believe St Mark Give back to Caesar what is Caesar’s and to God what is God’s.” As an old Frenchman with a Catholic upbringing thats what Ive always been taught. Many people here remained in the tradition of Leo XIII the pope who managed to persuade Catholics that the Republic was not the work of the devil. Not sure how to enforce this but ideally yes. Religion has proven to have done more harm than good time and time again and mixing it with politics or at least with conservatism in particular has proven to be worse than the sum of its parts. The reason the major religious leaders advocated for the separation of church and state in the US as it was forming was because they saw how a state religion in the UK became an oppressive joke of itself and they didnt want that to be true of any of their denominations. I guess no one in the US remembers the 30 years war anymore or there wouldnt be any discussion about this. You can already see the amount if tricky its causing now. The Founding Fathers were very much aware of the complete disaster the war had been which is why one of the pillars remains the separation of State and Church. So fuck yes! Chuch should stay out of politics thats for sure. Keeping out religion is basically impossible as long as there are religious people. They will vote and therefore be catered by politicians according to their believes. Yes 1000x. Religion has always been used as a system for controlling the people and the people should control the government. There is no feedback loop with religion. Yes ban the religion of pride from politics please. So sick and tired of those fanatics 100% agree. The moment religion enters politics it stops being about justice for *all* and starts becoming a tool for enforcing moral absolutism based on one groups beliefs. You dont need to be religious to be moral and laws should reflect universal ethics not divine commandments. Religion is better without politics. Both my liberal LGBTQ friendly church and the most conservative no dancing / no jeans church agree that neither want Trump sending a bureaucrat down to make sure we have the correct interpretation of the Bible. Keeping religion out of politics is one of those applause lines thats broadly popular because people can just interpret however best fits with their own preferred policies. Depending on whos talking keep religion out of politics could mean anything from only atheists should be allowed to hold office to just dont declare a state religion and its fine. Is in entangling religion and politics for Christmas to be a national holiday? What about observing the weekend on the Abrahamic sabbaths? If a prominent supporter of an antidiscrimination bill says that we are all Gods children should that count as a point against the bill? Religion is a strong component of many peoples moral compasses. When voting should a Christian ignore that her religion tells her its righteous to give to the poor? In practice what people mean when they complain about religion in politics is that theyre upset that policies _they disagree with_ align with one religious tradition or another. No one would point to thou shalt not steal or thou shalt not bear false witness in the Bible and insist that laws against theft or perjury be repealed to separate religion from politics. ABSOLUTELY 100%. Cannot be involved in government there is just not an equitable way to do it for everyone so we do it for no one. This should not even be a question no offense to you at all it unfortunately IS a question right now its just crystal clear form the exclusion clause that it should NOT be. What the right is doing has nothing to do with religion and everything to do with education. The only thing the right wants is tax dollars to move from public schools to their Christian Academys that began and continue to provide segregated schools for their kids who will learn that government and science are not to be trusted and God meant for men to rule. Yes. Absolutely yes. In a free country yes because if a religion is the thing deciding what freedom you have and dont have youre not free. It never will truly be out of politics. Your political beliefs are based off your moral beliefs and your morals are based off religion. No. A persons religious beliefs or lack thereof are a valid factor in ones to voting or non voting preference. As far as policy goes the Founders were Christian or Theists/Deists. Jews also have an early presence and of course Judaism underpins Christianity which in turn underpinned the Renaissance and Enlightenment which motivated the Revolution. It all flows together and provides the foundation of Western Civilization. Hence a sheen of overt Christian symbology is more than appropriate and any religion should be able to practice without molestation. That includes being able to wear a Hijab at work or school or refuse to bake a Pride cake or enforce a morality clause. Why? Because it supersedes antidiscrimination and always has. Unpopular opinion on Reddit no doubt downvote away but the question is asked and thank the stars the Supreme Court is continuing to ossify my philosophy in that regard. Of course. We as a global society have been to space and plumbed the depths of the sea. We know how matter and energy work and can harness the power of the universe and nature itself. Its far time that we stop pretending to believe in fairy tales created to make children to behave. The very fact that there are so many religions should indicate that they are all false and that we need to keep believers out of any sort of position of power. They by their belief in the nonsensical default to being unreliable and unable to view things purely through reason. Never mind the certainty that the religious *institutions* will also hold unreasonable sway over their flock. It depends. If you mean mandating worship/religious observance/actions then yeah I would say so. going into beliefs gets kind of murky. Many religions have beliefs against murder theft etc. If a politician votes for stricter penalties against murderers due to their religious beliefs that could be considered enforcing their beliefs on others. Law and politics arent actually influenced by religion at all. They could be influenced by religious groups such as for example evangelicals. Or and this is especially the case rich people who consider themselves religious. Smoking weed and taking healthcare away from people arent mentioned in religion though. So politics and laws are actually influenced by tools like money and ideals like fascism. Yea you don’t think so look at Trump followers now somehow Trump is the new mesiah which means he can’t do wrong in their eyes. Separation of church and state. It’s on the fucking constitution. Even quoting Jesus Give Caesar what is Caesar’s and to God what is God’s Yet this fucking white nationalist administration is running our country into the ground. Dang another great question. This sub is getting to the heart of some key issues in our democracy. Again Im going to have to come back to this one to give it my full attention. Post 33 What do you think would happen if the US government tried to implement the ATeam today? When The U.S. Government Tried To Replace Migrant Farmworkers With High Schoolers. Athletes in Temporary Employment as Agricultural Manpower ATeam temporarily replaced the Bracero program. The ATeam brought high school students to pick crops. The ATeam did not last long because of protests of harsh working conditions. What do you think would happen if the US government tried to implement the ATeam today? As it relates to the ATeam how does it compare to the idea proposed by Florida Governor Ron DeSantis? Below is a link to the Miami Herald . This is a subreddit for genuine discussion * Please keep it civil. Report rulebreaking comments for moderator review. * Dont post low effort comments like joke threads memes slogans or links without context. * Help prevent this subreddit from becoming an echo chamber. Please dont downvote comments with which you disagree. Violators will be fed to the bear. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* ATeam stands for athletes in temporary employment as agricultural manpower. After the end of the Bracero program the US government tried to replace migrant workers with high school students. The ATeam did not last long. How do you think it shaped discussions around migrant labor for future generations? What do you think would happen if the US government tried to implement the ATeam today? Below is a link to National Public Radio NPR https//www.npr.org/sections/thesalt/2018/07/31/634442195/whentheusgovernmenttriedtoreplacemigrantfarmworkerswithhighschoolers As it relates to the ATeam how does it compare to the idea proposed by Florida Governor Ron DeSantis? Below is a link to the Miami Herald https//amp.miamiherald.com/news/politicsgovernment/statepolitics/article303763526.html 15 years ago the government of Georgia chased out all of their illegal migrant farm workers. They then brought in people on probation with the promise of time off their sentences. They gave up on the program as after just a few days the parolees and probationers all quit. Crops in Georgia did not get picked that year. The next year the illegal workers were back and the government of Georgia had no complaints. . *Current restrictions in Florida statutes make holding employment harder than required by federal law for this age group”* I remember that being true for under 18 employees back in the 90s when I was working at a movie theater from like 1519ish Floridian. They could choose to blatantly ignore the it has been 4 hours Im required to take a 15 minute break so you are going to need to take my place or find someone to do it in the middle of this rush NOW and similar state requirements but sometimes the company would get in trouble if the teenager wasnt an ass about it and an hr type would scold them into doing it under penalty of termination if they dont. Post 34 Have moderate politics failed? Let me explain. Today’s shift in politics is in a more radical and polarized one both sides agree on less and less issues each passing year this is already happening in developed countries and it’s about the same in developing countries. It’s argued that moderates want just to preserve a failed or in shambles system and don’t search to destroy and rebuild this system thus more radicals from the left and the right win elections and change the status quo. In fact many people who vote in more ideological and radical parties and politicians want just big changes so for example many trump voters would vote for Bernie sanders if he trump didn’t run in the elections and viceversa. They just want some big figure who dares to challenge the status quo and so vote on radicals from both sides. In my country brazil one of the reasons that explain why Bolsonaro won is because of the feeling that everything was the same and the old moderate parties were actually cooperating to maintain the status quo. America is a curious case trump redefined the Republican Party shifting the party more right Christian nationalistic and made everyone who wasn’t supporting him obsolete too moderate” or RINO. The Democratic Party also passed this as well there was a time not too long ago when it was okay for Obama to say that he didn’t supported gay marriage there was a time when democrats supported only safe” limited” abortions Bill Clinton even signed a bill reaffirming that a marriage is between a man and a woman there was a time when many democrats had a tougher instance on crime and immigration even more than current day republicans see Biden history on senate for example Obama deported more people than trump. Today’s democrats embraced a surprisingly progressive agenda like trying to redefine the concept of free speech over a third of democrats want to repeal the 2nd amendment defunding the police became a serious discussion in certain circles the idea to create a tax specifically for billionaires and of course the embracing of identity politics. It looks like it’s near impossible to find a mid ground in the present day. Polling is showing that Gen Z is becoming more conservative traditional and religious potentially even more than their grandparents however the progressive gen Z and millennials uphold very robust progressive values so it creates a deep gap between them. What do you think? Did moderated failed us? . This is a subreddit for genuine discussion * Please keep it civil. Report rulebreaking comments for moderator review. * Dont post low effort comments like joke threads memes slogans or links without context. * Help prevent this subreddit from becoming an echo chamber. Please dont downvote comments with which you disagree. Violators will be fed to the bear. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Im in the US. Theres no universal health care here. . Whats the moderate solution? No healthcare is too far right and universal healthcare is too far left. Is the moderate solution some healthcare for some of the people some of the time?? Moderate politics are failing because the problems we have are not moderate but deadly serious. A little here and a little there while we sing kumbaya across the aisle will not be sufficient. I feel like the issue isnt indicative of a failure of moderate politics but a reflection of the increased echo chambers we are living in. I believe this can be explained by the following. * Fewer centralizing communal activities. * Before even with technology options were more limited. Before the age of the internet you were generally more cut off from the outside world. Thus people socialized more with people around them. * There were fewer options for TVs/Movies so you connected with more people who all watched the same thing. * This overall centralization created shared memories and bonds that helped overcome differences. * Greater reach allows niche communities to form and for people to identify with people not in their orbit. * As the internet formed you could now connect with people who thought like you did. This had benefits of increasing fandoms but it also mean that people were increasingly spending time away from those who have different opinions. * Social Media and algorithms increased echo chambers dramatically. * Social media likes you to engage in the app. * It found people stay when they are angry or communicating with like minded people. * Algorithms pushed people into bubbles of like minded people and showed you the extremes of the other side. This kept people engaged and angry at the other side. * Slowly these groups stopped getting the same news and same entertainment. This lead to them becoming more divided. This creates a prime environment for both sides to believe 100% that they are in the right while not sharing any values or interests. Moderates didn’t fail perse they just lacked being able to compete with….. The Internet and media sphere with Culture Wars in which extremists views won by targeting quick emotion filled moments amongst a population with zero patience for figuring out the truth. moderates want just to preserve a failed or in shambles system All of this just boils down to the center in American politics being fundamentally right wing. The alternatives over the years havent been do crazy tea party/trumpist thing and do crazy communist thing with maintaining the status quo being the normal thing to do. That framing is just the conservative position but because we have only two parties and an extremely uneducated population those are the only two choices ever presented. People are having tangible and increasingly dire *real* problems. They want a candidate who will *do* things but the US establishment has almost always been fundamentally conservative and very rarely ever will and as the problems worsen the more pressure there is to make a change. But again this country is so ill informed and the government so conservative that theres really no structure for change. The Dems are threatened by anything to their left and the Rs have been happy to sell their soul to the far right since *long* before Trump. Moderates have no compelling vision for society other than maintaining the status quo. Those kind of beliefs are really only politically viable in times of prosperity when the economy is booming and there is little social strife. When there are real issues at play moderates struggle to provide actual answers to most of societies problems. Trying to split the difference on every issues ends up making everyone unhappy since thats not actually possible to do in any coherent manner. Trying to please everyone when difficult decisions have to be made either end up not addressing the root issue or just end up making everyone upset. At the end of the day moderates arent going to go away. Theyre just going to lurk in the background until one political ideology dominates. Theyll adapt and keep trying to split whatever the new difference is at that point. Well it depends on the area. Imo moderate politics havent failed everywhere. In Canada lots of people got turned off voting for the Conservatives because they were marching further right and once Trump gained power and started doing his thing moderates had a great boon in Canada as some Conservatives and large numbers of leftist NPD voters swapped to Liberal. Failed us? as citizens? of course. But it was never meant to help us. Its delivered for the donor class who are somehow taxed even less and less each passing budget. Its delivered for the moderate pundits who enjoy decent substack payouts for writing the democrats need to get bold and abandom trans/immigrants/the working class every few weeks. Its delivered for the politicians who run on being the sensible adults in the room and restoring sanity to america narrowly losing or winning and then going into the after dinner circuit and have a book ghostwritten about their experiences. Thats bullshit. Democrats are now republicans and republicans are crazy people. There are about the same distance apart as ever with few deviations. Dont try to both sides it cuz thats nonsense. The Overton window has moved so far to the right that the modern day republican party is unrecognizable. moderates or centrists are to blame for a lot of the ratchet effect that weve had since I was born Im 42 born during Reagan. Clinton was a centrist. He deregulated the banks which directly contributed to the crash in 07. Obama went with the ACA which just drove costs through the roof without actually solving any of the issues. Biden really accomplished nothing hes the Weimar Republic of presidents. The only chance this country has is to go left quickly. Single payer student loan forgiveness immigration reform abolishing ICE etc. if we dont this experiment is over. only in the sense that if my moderate you mean thirdway split the baby half measures that really only amount to more backsliding just at a slower rate. those politics have definitely failed and the backsliding has accelerated. I think the problem is that Moderate” in the context of US politics just means someone who wants to continue or work around the insane status quo we currently have. It means someone who is willing to preserve the massive upper transfer of wealth that has been happening since the 70’s leading us into a new guilded age. It means someone who is fine continuing to give Israel weapons to continue their modern day Holocaust in Gaza. It means someone who will reach across the aisle to find common ground with far right Christian Nationists before they’d dare compromise with true leftwing demands. Moderate” is a relative term. Our Overton window in U.S. politics is so far right that someone who is moderate” in the context of that is still someone pretty fucking right wing. I think moderates” would be a lot less unpopular if they were able to disentangle themselves from the corporatists who appropriate the term moderate” to cover their corruption and from people who like to be the enlightened centrists” type that tend to want to be moderate” because they think it makes them look smarter or more reasonable when really they believe in nothing. I also think that the term moderate” takes away from politicians with truly heterodox views like that one union leader from Nebraska that was making waves in the senate race who was moderate conservative on immigration but economically progressive The majoritys futures are getting worse particularly the younger you are. They are all looking for something different because what is normal is hurting them. All of this is directly related to the wealth and power of humanity being consolidated into fewer hands used to intensity that consolidation. More people are becoming more powerless so a few can become more powerful. All that power is used for the benefit and health of the powerful. So every year a larger percentage of the collective power of humanity is being redirected to benefit fewer and fewer humans at the expense of the benefit of every other human being. There is a slow moving genocide of the masses caused by the selfish egos of the wealthy. Well... yes. Moderates ceased to be moderate at some point generations back. Theyve largely just been soft conservatives maintaining the present system. Which isnt what people want or need after financial crisis a global pandemic housing crisis etc. People reach for whatever promises improvement and change so they go to the wings. Your gay marriage case is an example of how the incremental gains of the post civil rights coalition worked… MAGA is a thermostatic response to the incremental gains as well as a few other drivers and the insecurity that comes with changing demographics and socioeconomics The American people have pretty much shown they’re not looking for a further push left socially from the democrats But just gonna put this out there because I don’t think people really realize it… American liberal economic populism has histrionic been characterized by the northern and southern white political classes uniting over liberal economic policy and screwing over minority coalitions to facilitate that unification It also ends up more national socialist than socialist But any socialist who’s telling you that you can have the economic policy while not threatening if not outright sacrificing the gains of incrementalism is lying to you All the blue states decided they were full and stopped building houses their electoral college votes are in decline and the population age is going up. The blue states will turn into retirement homes and stop paying for schools because of it and also turn to red states consequently. Liberalism is killing itself telling everyone not to allow housing for its own children forcing those children to more to red states effectively exporting our political futures to other states. I think one of the issues is there is no winning by supporting moderate policies. I honestly think most of us agree on the core issues though obviously the devil is in the details. But say my party is currently in the majority and also holds the White House. Now both major parties agree on a common sense bill that most voters like and it becomes law. Why would anyone vote for the other party in the next election when the current party is getting so much done? Trump is good marketing.... He tells then exactly what they want to hear.. And they feel.part of something Used to be we want honesty from politicians .. Was going to say no more but i dont think people really wanted that Democracy offered a great way to achieve a political ideal a strong solution government that could impose ots will and policies but a way to remove that government peacefully when necessary. From the 1980s companies grew bigger and richer than governments. Now individuals are more powerful than even large societies. So they have neutered politics maintaining the image while ensuring no change and taking all of societys assets and output. Citizens recognise this but the left wing parties are spineless and look after themselves and the right wing parties are free to invent populist enemies whilst serving power. I think the problem with moderate” politicians is that they’re trying to position themselves in between two extremes whilst still labeling themselves as member of X party. It’s this awkward middle ground where you say you’re on one side but you’re also sort of on the other and everything is just a confusing unconvincing mess. If Trump is present at the 2016 Republican presidential debate well great! He’s a Republican. But then if he says that Roe v. Wade should be reinstated not only do voters question him his own party does. Is he still a Republican? Technically yes. But the people standing next to him who don’t support Roe v. Wade are they Super” Republicans or something? Should you even be called Republican” in the first place if you support abortion rights? Who knows? Do Republicans want someone representing them who doesn’t share their core beliefs? No. Does this help Democrats? Not really. Both sides lose. I think that voters for the most part don’t want a phony”—they want someone who stands firm in their opinions even if they don’t entirely agree with them. No one wants to stand there and deduce a politician’s views—the politician is supposed to do that for you. People value clarity and decisiveness over vagueness and ambiguity. That’s not to say that moderate politics can’t be successful. Some might argue that part of the reason Biden won the 2020 Dem primary is because he was the least polarizing candidate and appealed to both sides of the Democratic spectrum. In 2024 however embracing extremism To be fair Harris is less liberal than Trump is conservative seemed to work for both sides—Republicans and Democrats. No Moderate voters have. Don’t blame the wingnuts or the people that vote for them. Blame the people that won’t show up to vote for the moderates. Why is the International Politics flair used when most if not all of us are discussing US domestic politics? Moderate politics win out when people are operating on a shared set of facts. In that scenario people can see each other’s point of view and maybe come to a compromise. And people understand the need and desire to compromise. The rise of social media algorithms fake news and propaganda masquerading as news mean that we as a society no longer operate on a shared set of facts. Compromise with the other side is viewed as evil and the propaganda makes it easier to normalize extreme views and justify formerly unthinkable actions as necessary evils”. TLDR people are subjected to too much fake news and propaganda resulting in a polarized fearful electorate Moderate politics is corporatism with language like tough decisions” peppered in. Decent point but asserting Bernie voters had/would vote for Trump is debunked. Only 15% voted Trump in 2016 less than sore loser Hillary voters over Obama in 2008. Both sides had similar grounds for being outsiders of the failing moderate system but that where the similarity ends. Its hard to really gauge how much of a bridge there is due to each group being on opposite ends of the spectrum. Im not saying its a big factor but one of the major problems with modern Centristsi.e. Noah Smith Matt Yglesias etc. is that these people have very little rage. The biggest Centrist ideologues are mildmannered technocrats with little empathy for people or anger at the system preferring to talk down and wag their fingers at people for not being as smart or above partisan politics. The Democrats are the moderates always have been. We have no meaningful left wing party. Its far right wing Republicans right of center Democrats and truly nothing else though I think at this point the majority of Americans are left of the Democrats if you ask them what they want and dont put labels on anything. Many moderates including myself feel politically ostracized by both sides at the moment. A lot of the polarization is due to social media us versus them narratives strawman arguments culture wars and ideological purity tests these apply to both sides We’re in a state where the media is doing a poor job of focusing on the real problems focusing on the crazy gaffoftheminute for clicks instead of the real existential problems facing the country or outright lying to their viewers for clicks cash and influence. We’re in a state where almost half the population actually thinks their life sucks because some people use the wrong pronouns and bathrooms or that hard working immigrants working jobs nobody wants are why THEIR wages haven’t gone up etc etc….newsflash your life sucks because your job pays crap wages because attempts to raise your wages were voted down by you again and again healthcare is draining your finances because healthcare giants are ripping you off and you keep voting for more of the same the good middleincome jobs you’re remembering from days past? They’re not returning to America like you’re being promised they’re being outsourced to robots and AI not that immigrant you’re demonizing and you’re electing officials to make the superwealthy even more wealthy….and you’re listening to a media source that is actively lying to keep this status quo going. And you’re convinced anybody that points out the real problems is lying. In my opinion the problem isn’t moderation it’s a failed media failed election laws and a poorly educated citing public that fails to have the critical thinking skills to understand the problems of today. But the moderates” keep failing to find a way to articulate the real problems in a way that it connects with these voters. I don’t know if the country and economy has to ride this to the ground” to shake them up enough to look around or if they can simply wake up to realize they’ve been lied to over and over and they’re actively voting against their own interests again and again because they’ve been tricked into thinking these silly social issues are the real problems in their lives. Moderate politics only seems to fail where voter suppression exists. If you look at extremist right wing Govts they are in places like Russia USA and Hungary where voters can have their voices suppressed I think the problem is that moderate politics are actually quite extreme. Media in this country tries to tell us what the center is and it doesnt match reality people are living which is leading to the extreme polarizing from people looking for a real answer. I dont think Americawasbroken and idont think progressives nor Trump are really trying to fix it anyway The Dems have bought into the social program of elites hatched in Ivy League universities to cover up the fact that those universities expressly recognize and perpetuate inherited birthright privilege. Elites realized in the early 21st century that such a system lead to virtually allwhite classes and they wanted to diversify” what those classes looked like. Enter the idea that the U.S. is an apartheid state haunted by structural racism built into every institution and only *affirmative* action to address that structural racism could cure it. One might think Harvard for example might reserve some of its legacy admission spots that normally go to blueblooded last names some of whom owe their fortune to American slavery ironically for their new diversification program right? Wrong. Harvard still accepts every Kennedy” who applies no matter how mediocre. The actual competition is between the nonwealthy expendable white applicants and the preferred diversity applicants the game is still rigged for Kennedys and Pritzkers as it always has been. That only shows that the entire ideology is bunk. But what would replace it? Economic populism? Economic populism is *extremely* dangerous to unearned inherited wealth also to earned wealth but America is awash in billionaire heiresses who have literally done nothing but be born into influence. After 2009 there was a strain of economic populism that swept the country and really beginning in 2014 or so elite left institutions started working together to suppress that kind of populism and provide a different ideology to replace it antiracism. The ideology that says that every white person and all American institutions are systemically racist and need to be cleansed by DEI. A corollary to that is that anyone who does not accept that race is the most important division among humans is banished from the temple and labeled a bigot/bad faith actor. So the left moved really far to the left *socially* in an engineered fashion all the mandatory microaggression seminars speech codes etc because that was a way to suppress economic populism that could have challenged elite power structures. That is why Bernie was not the candidate in 2016. The problem with DEI” isn’t that it is evil or even wrong it’s just not the correct solution for the problems most Americans face in the 21st century. It would have been a great solution to problems black Americans faced in 1914 or 1965 but in 2025 black and white Americans actually have the same problems all tied to the extreme concentration of wealth and the lack of opportunity for the nonwealthy that such concentration has caused. That isn’t to say that if you had a national survey some black Americans wouldn’t cite racism” as the #1 problem facing America of course some people would young people have been conditioned from birth to believe that it is *the* seminal issue of our time because that is what elites have decided should be the seminal issue of our time. But when being completely honest most Americans face the same problems the rising cost of home ownership the rising cost of healthcare and college the stagnation of wages and the distortions in the labor market caused by illegal immigration and soon from AI too. The problem with us collectively recognizing these *actual* problems that the masses face is that we might collectively do something about it. And historically inherited wealth billionaires have not fared well when the masses assert themselves. TLDR the entire move of the Democratic Party to the left” has been a social engineering experiment by elites to divide the masses to keep us from unifying behind economic populism. Dems divide using social issues because economic populism could meaningfully challenge elites who fund the Democratic Party. Moderate positions wouldn’t help stoke the division of the masses and might lead to people asking why for example some people get to inherit tens of billions of dollars tax free to buy a first home while others have to pay income taxes of 2030% and save for decades to buy a first home. Those are dangerous questions to ask so Democratic elites supply the answer racism now go focus on solving that and we will solve the pedestrian home ownership problem…some day once there are no more racists on Earth…” Some scattered thoughts 1 If moderate politics failed us the electorate in the United States doesnt believe it. The one consistent thread for close to 40 years now is that the candidate perceived to be more moderate wins the presidential election. The most powerful individuals in the House and Senate time and time again are those staking a more moderate position and able to rein in the excesses of the left and right. 2 Failed implies an effort to succeed in something or a broader plan. While the left implies that moderate is just someone who wants the status quo and the right views them as wolves in sheeps clothing the reality is just that moderate generally means not on the left or right. Theres no real agenda outside of not wanting to go off the deep end. By and large no one *tries* to be a moderate they just end up there. 3 The idea that it has something to do with the status quo is simply a strange line of attack. Plenty of moderates want broad changes they just arent extremists about it. Typically though this line of thinking comes from left wingers who think the country is hopelessly right wing and we should probably dismiss the argument outright. ITT a lot of leftists proving the problem highlighted by this post by assuming their opinion is immutable fact and that anyone not holding them is either idiotic or the enemy. The sheer condescension and arrogance in assuming one’s own opinion on something is the absolute truth and therefore all that matters is really core of the problem and why polarisation exists. If you deny the very existence of any good faith arguments against your positions then you’re already in an echo chamber. Now some positions are definitely free from any good faith arguments like genocide being bad whether Israel is committing genocide is not the same thing. But most leftist positions in this thread? Anticapitalism anti free speech government regulation of everything in the economy these are all positions where it is possible to have a good faith disagreement. And denying that very existence is just the very polarisation that they accuse the right of. I would place the majority of blame on the radical left who spent every waking moment demonizing Trump and his supporters. Before this politics were nasty but at the end of the day we supported our president as a nation and had pride. Now the scene is the extreme lies and hypocrisy spread about Trump which in turn harden and radicalize his supporters in response to the attacks and perceived conspiracies against them. Post 35 What factors make someone’s political identity feel fused with their sense of self? I’ve been thinking about how some people seem to treat political disagreements almost like personal attacks while others are more detached or open to debate. What makes the difference? Is it upbringing emotional experiences education or something else? Are there known psychological or developmental reasons why some people fuse their identity so strongly to their political beliefs? I’m curious what the research or lived experience says about what shapes that level of personal attachment. . This is a subreddit for genuine discussion * Please keep it civil. Report rulebreaking comments for moderator review. * Dont post low effort comments like joke threads memes slogans or links without context. * Help prevent this subreddit from becoming an echo chamber. Please dont downvote comments with which you disagree. Violators will be fed to the bear. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Political identity is part of your self. However a political PARTY should not be fused to a sense of self [deleted] I think the difference between those two examples you mentioned OP is that just like others have pointed out here one person identifies with a political party or an individual politician while the other identifies with policy. Identifying with individual policies or even a set of policies is democracy working as intended. Youre supposed to feel one way or another on a given issue based on your experiences and values. Thats a feature not a bug. It also means that if someone presents you with conflicting information perhaps their experiences and a different way of interpreting things you can at minimum indulge their thinking without it ever feeling like an attack. But this is not so when you identify with a party. Parties change their positions regularly. The only thing that stays reasonably consistent are the prominent figures in that party and the imagery. That means that the things you support have nothing to do with your values. They cant unless your fundamental values change regularly something we know change only gradually save for traumatic experiences. For example. Are Republican voters pro free trade or pro protectionism? It alternates depending on whether or not DJT is presently touting a trade deal or a new tariff. Look at opinion polls on Americans perspective on Canada for example. The moment Trump suggests that they are grifters negative sentiment among Republicans absolutely skyrockets. Not one thing changed about Canada during that time. My point is that if you identify with a person you cant ever be persuaded or really even reasoned with. Any attempt to oppose a political party then feels more like youre opposing their good buddy Steve more than it feels like disagreeing with some abstract policy proposal. After all how could you disagree with Steve hes always been a real stand up guy. In my humble opinion its a big reason why the Democrats are at such a disadvantage right now. They keep trying to win on policy and losing to attack ads besmirching personal characteristics of left wing politicians and strawmen of left wing voters. Even when Republicans do attack policy they do it in such a way that it rarely if ever engages with the substance of that policy. They appeal to common sense in some vague aggregate and then engage no further because anyone who disagrees is clearly a dummy lacking that common sense. Its like boxing a Muhammad Ali hes moving all over the place and its incredibly difficult to land a blow with any substance because the entire partys identity is flexible. Sorry OP youre the weird one. Your political identity \*should be\* fused with your personal identity. Its very strange to me when people act like their politics are meaningless like the political party they support is no more meaningful than the baseball team they support. No. The policies you support or oppose have everything to do with who you are as a person. Like I cant imagine someone walking up to me and saying Yeah I dont think LGBT people should have the right to get married. But that doesnt mean Im a bad person! Actually no supporting immoral policies does in fact make you an immoral person. Dont pretend otherwise. Sometimes theres no way to seperate politics from *who* you are. Imagine being Black in the early 1960s and having to listen not just to meanass Segregationists but also to centrist liberal handwringing. The latter crowd was awfully nervous and hesitant over the prospect of upsetting the applecart down in the Solid South. It must have been quite difficult to debate against that with cool detached decorum. This talks about Identity Fusion. When someone elses political beliefs include eliminating me or my loved ones its pretty difficult to separate that from my sense of self. What doesnt make sense to me is why someone would want to build their entire identity around harming others. Are their lives just so easy that they have to go looking for trouble? This is a really good question. Ive been mulling over something similar. I wanna come back to this thread because there is a lot to think about. Just for starters though the number of replies questioning/challenging the premise of your question is very interesting! Heres a question that might illustrate why this makes sense to other people but doesnt make sense to you If you saw something important to the health and happiness of yourself or the people you care about being threatened would you vote accordingly to that? Typically this kind of thinking is intuitive for people and the wide norm and that makes sense if you think of things people say like love thy neighbor or even simple things like ask each other how can I help you?. I think a lot of the frustration directed your way comes from ideas sounding and feeling threatening to other people or people that they care about. And you may have to ask I the things I am supporting were threatening to me would I still support them? Why would a trans person be in favor of getting rid of gender affirming care or a legal latino US citizen support the Trump admin if white house chief of staff Stephen Miller is bragging about denaturalization for citizens and deporting whole families. Speaking of I want you to imagine the kindest cartoon character you can imagine to explain the following to you Its obvious to people who value themselves or other people that they care about to keep them safe and supported and that care extends to strangers that may be going through hard times and need support. Good luck with that bet. Great question. There’s actually a field of research on this called **identity fusion**—where someone’s political group becomes part of their *core self*. When that happens criticism of the group feels like a personal attack. A few major factors that can lead to this * **Early socialization** If someone grows up in a community where politics is tied to morality family or religion political beliefs can become entwined with selfworth. * **Trauma or major life events** Experiences like war economic collapse or injustice can make political identity a survival mechanism. * **Group reinforcement** Constant feedback from likeminded peers or media bubbles can create an echo chamber that solidifies identity. * **Perceived threat** When people feel their values or way of life are under attack they often double down—turning political allegiance into personal armor. Some studies also show that **people who feel powerless** in other parts of life may cling more tightly to a political identity because it offers belonging and clarity. It’s something we keep in mind at —because when politics feels *personal* reform feels like betrayal even when its needed. I think the difference is then people consider their political party more an ideology and less a collection of policies developed by a group of people in which there is another group that disagree. When it’s ideology it’s a matter of right” vs wrong.” Then if they view themselves as a good righteous person it almost becomes an ethical and moral necessity to align and identify with one political party over another. We are a fundamentally tribal species. The visual and obvious signs and symptoms of belonging to defined groups that are the backbone of a us vs them” mentality are no longer reliable indicators of wether or not you will find a significant enough of a commonality to view someone as even if only temporarily one of the tribe. Considering the most polarizing issues in politics it seems logical and reasonable to be able assume some key insights into an individuals worldview for better or worse. Right now is pretty fascinating cuz we’re literally witnessing whether or not America will survive and remain a democracy or becomes a country that has slipped into an oligarchy of sycophants worshiping a cult of personality in which political and identity of self are going to be tied together more than ever before. I think a lot of it is security and confidence as a person moderated for how the issue at hand affects you. Weak or traumatized people become extremists on both sides. There is plenty of evidence of higher cases of mental illness the more extreme you get on the political spectrum. By definition moderates would be more tolerant because they see value in both sides. I’d also argue that certain issues will be RED hot to certain groups. Sexual assault survivors are going to be more tuned in to that subject just like someone who works in oil in gas might get heated about energy policy. It’s probably a sliding scale for how much the topic affects you as well as your own personal self awareness that others might disagree and you won’t make progress screaming at them. ….. with liberty and justice for all.” As others said political identity should be/feel fused with one’s sense of self. Before politics became a thing before society became a thing before family units became a thing a baby was suckling its mom’s tits for sustenance. As that baby grew up its experiences would inform it that it wants its mom and dad to be safe for its safety. It would learn to identify with its family. As it grew up it would if in a good home identify with its family and want the best for them. As it grew up further it would start interacting with outsiders people outside the family. In a homogeneous environment it would learn to be accepting of alike kinds. If raised in a more inclusive multicultural environment it would experience different individuals and prolly make up its mind that nonsimilar individuals still deserve the same guaranteed liberties of its homogeneous kinds. As it got old enough to start considering politics as a thing it would take its prior and ongoing experiences and form a simplecomplex web of ideas on what it believed. So to answer your question now more succinctly the way one is raised the experiences they get to have or not have the culture they grow up in the life they grow up in shapes them. Some come out more rounded others less. If they lived a very narrow life till they were older their sense of self will be very narrow and expanding it either will take them out of their comfort zone or contradict what they used to believe. We see this in the movie Inside Out 2 where the girl tells herself she is definitely a good person” before being subjected to new emotions that essentially instigate that she’s not good enough”. The girl overall grows up by accepting experiences she had been pushing away until near the end of the movie. Her sense of self grew immensely through the trial. She did horrible things to her best friends and others in pursuit of fame and chasing acceptance of specific others and she eventually apologized and likely grew to recognize that she shouldn’t do certain things. People grow their political identity in the same way. Some parts of a political identity come easier. I don’t want anyone to be a slave bc slavery forced servitude isn’t good/fun/easy/fair/right/whatiwantformyself.” We generally don’t have to ask someone if they want to be stabbed or shot survival generally demands it not happen to the self. Some people are able to take that further through a lens of family or society or multiculturalism and apply the general rules to others If I don’t want to get stabbed/shot others probably also don’t want to get that”. If I want to get paid a living wage I expect others to get paid a living wage”. If I can practice my culture others should be able to practice their culture”. This sense of self gets distorted by religion by lack of critical thinking regarding ideology/values a mixture of loyalty to a ideology over critical thinking about the stances it could demand you uphold and just settling for comfort over continued exploration by just other priorities. Someone might say slavery is wrong but condone it for others they have dehumanized. The dark ages and medieval ages are ripe with this christians/vikings/pagans/muslims/others slave trading unaffiliated believers to others. As an again christians may say slavery is bad but they condone what they read in the Bible or scriptures. Mormonism implicitly says it’s okay to be racist to native Americans and black people. The abrahamic faiths encourage ingroups and outgroups cultural exclusions to who should or shouldn’t be listened to. I’ve been told I’m an ignorant fool for not believing Jesus rose from the dead and is God and deserves my undying loyalty and adoration. I still think those christians deserve their cultures to be accepted but not over and above other cultures. When Christian culture comes and says it demands to lead and choose who should and shouldn’t be listened to based on faith doctrine and dogmatism I push back. I think I’ll stop after this paragraph. I’m just starting to ramble I feel. Christianity is a good example of a group that plays up a persecution complex to its community to create loyalty in its members to itself. It uses authoritarianism and the divine” to proclaim its ‘dogmatic truth’ is the truth and everyone speaking up against it are an outgroup known as nonbelievers sinners heretics barbarians demons demon possessed fools. A christian cant oppose their religious leader or institution without getting shunned by the group and possibly losing their major support/community network. In such a way even if someone wants to break free they have to do a lot of studying/legwork and be prepared to lose a lot if they start contradicting their former beliefs. The denigration of immutable characteristics and medical conditions to mere political ideology. You can choose to actively encourage policies that harm multiple demographics of people for power. You can choose to stand by quietly while they do that. You can choose to openly oppose that process. While maybe right now the middle class can choose to turn a blind eye for much of history peoples civil rights and livelihoods are what politics has debated. If everything that you are and everyone you love is threatened by an opposing political party it is hard to be disinvested. Fear is a huge catalyst for political involvement. I think most of politics come down to valuing empathy over logic democrats or valuing logic over empathy Republicans I’m trans. Me being alive in public spaces is a political debate that people treat as some kind of high minded abstraction. It gets personal for me there pretty quick. I think regardless your political identity is a reflection of your personal identity the extent of your knowledge your basic moral principles etc etc which is why you see such distinct patterns in data about education across parties not an inflammatory statement pointing out that yes your upbringing does effect your political identity or even locational biases to a certain party. But I personally believe that you even asking this question shows that nowadays the fusing of personal identity with political identity is a lot more common. In my opinion at the risk of sounding like a conspiracy theorist this was done intentionally to perpetrate extreme division between sides. Maybe you can compromise a political opinion but it’s harder and possibly even impossible to put aside your personal moralities to accommodate someone else’s because these moral principles have informed your entire life and are not limited to just your political identity. If people have stronger moral principles like I think all people are equal! I think people have basic rights! Etc or ethically weaker moral principles I think I have basic rights! I think I’m more important than other people! these will define their political identity in the current climate of politics Take the sudden focus on abortion this is a direct probing for a moral principle it asks people to answer a complex ethical question to define murder to assign hierarchical value to life to acknowledge the biological differences in gender and biology and make informed decisions about it. The current political climate ONLY brings up questions like this so it can feel like a persons political identity= personal identity If you think politics shouldn’t be part of your identity you haven’t learned enough about politics. Politics are literally about life and death. It’s about allowing people to have the freedom our constitution says it does. It’s about trying to make our country the good and moral nation we were told it was. But when the status quo is that we support genocide abroad when our law enforcement can’t stop shooting black people when the rich and our government rob us blind when the LGBT community is barely allowed to exist it’s not optional to care. If you don’t care about these issues it makes you complicit. Not taking a side is just taking the side of whoever wins. Neutrality is the side of oppression. To just about sum it up for you Some people dont like being lied to while other people dont even know theyre being lied to and then we have who is left the folks who prefer the lies. Post 36 Nate Silver’s latest blog post notes that conservatives are up 31 points among those with selfdescribed excellent mental health and down 26 among those with poor mental health—how do you grapple with this data? From Nate some of Democrats’ problem with young men is that they’re seen as what in the poker world we’d call nits” neurotic riskaverse sticklers for the rules always up in everyone’s business.” The data is pretty stark that conservatives on average are much more mentally well than progressives. How do you interpret this? https//www.natesilver.net/p/sbsq21whyyoungmendontlikedemocrats . This is a subreddit for genuine discussion * Please keep it civil. Report rulebreaking comments for moderator review. * Dont post low effort comments like joke threads memes slogans or links without context. * Help prevent this subreddit from becoming an echo chamber. Please dont downvote comments with which you disagree. Violators will be fed to the bear. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* OP Your post is ignoring something fairly significant. Selfdescribed. You can be batshit insane and think youre the only person that sees the truth. You can also be humble and think that yeah I have some problems but theyre not that bad There is data that conservatives are happier than democrats though. And I think there could be something to be said about some of them being nits In the 80s/90s conservatives were all for banning games and rap music. So they were the nits. In 2020 you can see them more on both sides. Selfdescribed is the key word. Most Trumpies are wearing some amazing blinders. Given two groups Group A Acknowledges mental health struggles and supports programs to assist Group B Stigmatizes those struggling and would consider anyone admitting struggles to be weak and to be shunned Which group would you expect to be hesitant to admit to mental health challenges? Im not saying thats the only explanation for the delta but I expect its a big one The craziest people I know don’t think they’re crazy. What a bad way to phrase that question. Keyword self described. Conservatives are drawn to / want to exhibit strength and see admission of mental health struggles as weakness. Most alcoholics would self report that they dont have a drinking problem. And then demonstrate otherwise. This is still something to be aware of politically/socially as if you wanted to get these people to stop drinking you might take some angle _other than_ simply noting a problem and directing them to help but... Yeah. Sounds like people with self described excellent mental health are more likely self deluded It just means trump voters cant admit that type of weakness and leftists tend to wear the label proudly as a quirk and often engage in selfdiagnosis since theres no longer a stigma for it in their social group. Theres no doubt that trump voters are incredibly mentally ill they exist in a world of delusions and devoid of facts. Mentally healthy people dont visit that world. Those that think they aren’t crazy are almost always the crazy ones. Meanwhile those that are normal tend to look for things that might be wrong with them. For example I have CPTSD. I know I have a ton of ticks and foibles but I’m a functional member of society. Meanwhile my narcissistic father who was the root cause of much of my abuse that caused my condition swore up and down he was perfectly healthy even though half a dozen psychologists and psychiatrists diagnosed him as a sociopath. It’s very similar to how the dumbest person you know thinks they’re a genius but the legitimate genius is overwhelmed with imposter syndrome. I dont really find it that surprising that in a world filled with injustice people who think thats just how it works and it doesnt need to be fixed are overall happier than those who are deeply concerned with resolving injustices. I have the best mental health some say really tremendous. Out of all the presidents you know you think other presidents have had to deal with this when China tries to back out of deals very good deals and then the media they lie you know they say I chicken out but I am a man not a chicken thats fake news. And so my mental health is very good. \Selfdescribed excellent mental health\ But to answer your question a bit more seriously it is at all a wonder that Conservatives would be feeling mentally better and less anxious in the given moment? I bet ethnic Germans in Germany in the mid 1930s had WAY better mental health than ethnic Jews. self describe” I am sure they describe themselves as loving freedom too as they pass laws forcing underage rape victims to give birth worship a cult leader who wants to run for third term and track all Americans political leanings. Phony study to help conservatives fweeeel better The type of guy who would shoot you 12 times in the back for entering his driveway by mistake would without question describe his mental health as excellent. The Democrats do have something of a nerd problem but that statistic is completely useless. This is no surprise. Everyone that is not on the the chump train knows that they nor the Republicans know how to self reflect or take accountability. They have been programmed to think there is no injustice in the world. And that people are poor because they deserve it. They dont know how to argue in good faith and they overlook facts because they feel so strongly about it. Theyre just poor trump victims and theyre literally just waiting until theyre saved. Most likely by the democratic party because I dont see the republican party stepping up to the plate anytime soon. That would make them have to publicly acknowledge that they fucked up. The state of the world has me pretty low mentally. The state of the world has gotten there by following authoritarian rule. Authoritarian rule has me feeling pretty mentally low. Conversely those who support authoritarianism see themselves as on the winning team when authoritarianism rules. Winning especially to those who hold a vertical hierarchical worldview feels good. A core worldview of those who support authoritarianism is vertical hierarchy. They see themselves as winning which places them higher in the hierarchy. Their mental state is based on feeling superior to others so when they feel superior they feel better. Is that actually emotional/mental health? Not by my standards. Do these people actually understand emotional/mental health? Probably not. Therein lies the problem when you ask them to self identify. In addition to the data being a little noisy because of the selfdescribed angle here I would argue this is correlated with the fact that . Paying close attention to politics is not great for ones mental health. You spend a lot of time seeing problems that arent getting solved seeing suffering around the world and grappling with unsolvable problems. But in our current media environment the more you pay attention to politics the more likely you are to vote Democrat which I think goes some way toward explaining this phenomenon. I also think Silvers pontificating about the underlying psychology of Democrats versus Republicans is worthless FWIW. The older I get the more I believe excellent mental health” is a rarity in the general population not the norm. the results from our experiment suggest that using different measures of wellbeing” may lead to different conclusions about whether or not conservatives are truly happier” than liberals. The story surrounding whether or not the happiness gap exists may depend on which term you use as a proxy for happiness. It is worth understanding both the subtle differences that these terms convey as well as how people might respond to these terms in different ways. Given the significant news coverage that these findings receive in the mainstream media it is especially important to emphasize that the existence of this ideological wellbeing gap appears to depend on the terminology one uses when asking Americans to provide these selfassessments. In other words conservatives may be treating the mental health question as a loaded question as has the OP. For whatever reason conservatives are more inclined to claim that they have good mental health. When different questions are asked about related topics such as mood the gap narrows. Its possible that conservatives see poor mental health as a sign of weakness so they are less likely to admit to having such problems if they do. I would not confuse selfassessment with the accuracy of the answer. our studies found that political liberals exhibited more frequent and intense happinessrelated behavior than political conservatives. Contrary to the pattern found in selfreports of happiness and life satisfaction linguistic analyses of massive archives of text from both elected politicians and the general public revealed a modest but consistent tendency for liberals to use more positive emotional language than conservatives. In addition we found that liberal politicians and employees at organizations promoting liberal values smiled more intensely and genuinely than their conservative counterparts. Although the effects in these studies were small they consistently revealed greater happinessrelated behavior among liberals rather than conservatives. Both groups are missing a healthy medium which is a sign of society in disarray. But neither young shrieking hyperprogressive female whites with patently comfortable existences who overreport selfprofessed mental health woes nor genuinely woebegone dejected disrespected forlorn miserable middleaged conservative men who underreport their own inner demons are receptive to hearing that their respective reactions or lack thereof are statistical aberrations anomalies and outliers whereby their warped perceptions arent in line with material reality. Not only that but if you even attempt to argue that more energy resources and political capital in traditional social democratic universalist fashion not niche bourgeois culturally progressive meanstested tripe should be allotted and reallocated to middleaged men in a far more equitable manner well that wont go over well whatsoever among The Groups one iota. Hate to say it but theres unfortunately a zerosum game aspect to this shit which oughtnt be the case. Oh well whatever. [removed] How does being depressed about something you cant really change help anything? As a liberal who used to be one of these people its not helpful. And you can be happy while acknowledging injustice in the world. What other liberals are saying in this thread and apparently elsewhere is toxic. I really hope we can realize that because were in danger of going instinct. Like literally because liberal women arent having babies but conservatives are so our culture is killing itself. People look up the numbers. Look at the working class. They are abandoning Dems in droves regardless of religion race or creed. We are not standing up for minorities. Were pushing them away. There is something wrong with our culture and we need some serious introspection. I dont know how you look at the people on the right especially some of their biggest influencers and think they are mentally well. I mean if youre generally aware of the state of the world then it makes sense to be depressed. Weve been regressing as a society since 2016 and its probably never going to get any better. selfdescribed To me this seems more indicative that conservatives are not very self aware or reflective which tracks. First of all the problem with people who are mentally unstable is that they often dont realize they have a problem. So I dont think this is much of a survey. Now if the question is are liberals more unhappy as a whole than conservatives then I would say yes. It doesnt have much to do with politics. Liberals seem to connect their emotions and much more with their environment and the vibe. Conservatives seem to be more focused on tangible things like work money and material enjoyment. I could be wrong about all that but my experience leads me this way. I think this idea of selfdescribed excellent mental health to be an exageration its impossible to know if they actually have excellent mental health however I do believe it could be a proxy for general happiness and there have been studies before that conservatives are generally happier than leftists/progressives. About riskadverseness I dont know Ill take Silvers word on it but I do think that Democrats have a fundamental cultural problem from which they seem incapable to find their way out they currently represent the whiny busybody and useless HR departments that make it their mission in life to make sure everybody else is misarable and that is simply not something that a political party can afford at least if it wants to win elections. Until the Democratic party learns to be chill/cool again they will not be making any inroads in the male vote in fact they are likely to lose more of it. I know no one wants to admit their side has negative trait or the other side could possibly have good trait But yeah there have been many studies and articles that liberal white women go to therapy / counselors the most and guys go the least. esp young guys. Im sure to the progressives dems and lefties in this sub it will be hard to not just want to brush this off as being bias or that all self reported data must be wrong odd that self reporting of political party gets a pass though The article more just talks about the Modern Dem party having a problem to connect with young men I think thats much more the fault of Left leaning media than the party. Left leaning media keeps writing the problem with Men in X They not only police language but even tone. young men want to joke around and have fun not have someone a journalist or professor say they are doing a micro aggression or cultural appropriation for having a taco and sombrero party on cinco de mayo. I think the real guilty party that is is digging a hole for D &amp progressive politicians alike is the Dem leaning media. this isnt that surprising. its a selfdescribed stat and one side of the aisle tends to attract the people that are looking to be a victim. the people talking about microaggressions are exclusively going to be on one side of the aisle and theyre likely to be claiming some kind of issue. [removed] Post 37 Howd we go from deporting illegal immigrants to deporting legal ones? All along Trump supporters have been saying they only want the people who came illegally to be deported. Even if they have committed no other crimes they say that being here illegally is deserving of deportation. But now the Trump regime wants to deport up to half a million people who came here legally. Do Trump supporters here agree with that? Do you support that? https//www.nytimes.com/2025/05/31/us/politics/supremecourtimmigrants.html?unlocked_article_code=1.LU8.a7X.XvNLyX1oktyL&ampsmid=nytcoreandroidshare . This is a subreddit for genuine discussion * Please keep it civil. Report rulebreaking comments for moderator review. * Dont post low effort comments like joke threads memes slogans or links without context. * Help prevent this subreddit from becoming an echo chamber. Please dont downvote comments with which you disagree. Violators will be fed to the bear. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* My law firm does a ton of first amendment civil rights work. There was a legal visa holder an hour away who got arrested during a protest as though he were an undocumented migrant in the country without authorization. He was clearly arrested for speaking his mind. We brought suit on his behalf under Section 1983 and got him on deferred status until the lawsuit is over. Overton window always shifting. It’s about desensitizing the narrative overtime. By the time they get to US citizens it’s seen as the obvious next step to Trump supporters. Because it never was about legal status. It was always hatred towards all immigrants. Christ the guy went around accusing *legal* Haitian immigrants as stealing and eating pets. Him revoking visas and legal status was the most predictable thing in the world. The public doesnt care. As far as the public is concerned any and all immigrants are illegal. Birthright citizenship is already on the chopping block constitution be dammed. Anyone whose family doesnt date to being present in the US since the 1800s is likely to be targeted. All along Trump supporters have been saying they only want the people who came illegally to be deported. They were lying the entire time. Many people called them out on this. Even now they continue to lie as an insult. People don’t seem to remember this but at the tail end of the first trump presidency he was critical of legal migration even back then. Hard to find 500000 illegal immigrants to deport. A lot easier to find 500000 legal immigrants what with their paperwork and all. It’s all about numbers / performative government. It was never about legal status. If someone needs a complicated legal status to hate someone they’re just using it as an excuse to hate someone they already hate. That was always the plan and those of us who were warning people were well aware that was the plan but were told we were exaggerating that Trump just wants to go after the people who didnt have legal status in the US Because the people who hate illegal immigrants also hate legal immigrants and their end goal is to turn the U.S. into white Christian enthostate. First theyll go for the undocumented immigrants because they shouldnt be here. Then theyll go for legal residents noncitizens because America is for Americans. Then theyll ramp up the imprisonment of nonwhites because race x is clearly mostly violent criminals. They theyll come for the nonChristians and liberals because they spread subversive ideas and cause division. Most Americans arent on fire right now over ICE rounding up undocumented immigrants because legally those people shouldnt be here and even if you dont like the tactics being used by ICE the law is the law. The regime is grabbing a few legal residents and citizens in their round up accidentally to test the waters and see how people react. If there is no major backlash it will happen more often and may become more violent to encourage people to selfdeport so they dont end up in Guatemala or someplace like it. *If you leave now you can go home else well put you in a concentration camp.* And then the rest. Were exiling citizens now. It was always going to happen. They told us they would do this. Its all written down in Project 2025 You people voted for this. I personally don’t support this. Frankly I think it’s stupid. And a majority of the American public seems to agree as evidenced by polling. I’m not very shocked by this however. Trump can do whatever he wants at this point and no one will care. And if anyone confronts him about it his response will be that Biden created the migrant crisis but he fixed it and made the greatest border in the history of our country.” People will focus on that and forget about everything else. It seems many are unaware that this progression is part of a wellworn authoritarian playbook. Historically regimes that sought to consolidate power have often begun by targeting a specific group typically one that is already marginalized or politically convenient to scapegoat. Over time the definition of the enemy” quietly expands to include dissenters critics and eventually anyone who is deemed inconvenient or undesirable” by those in power. We’ve seen this throughout history in Nazi Germany policies that began by targeting undocumented immigrants and Jews extended to political dissidents Romani people LGBTQ individuals and the disabled. In Stalinist Russia it started with counterrevolutionaries and soon included intellectuals artists and ordinary citizens who simply voiced disagreement. The pattern is chillingly familiar. Many of us who have studied these shifts whether through formal education or a deep personal interest in history have recognized the warning signs. We saw this coming…. What begins as a seemingly narrow immigration policy can quickly become a tool for widespread suppression. And unless more people recognize what’s happening it WILL get worse. Trump says what ever the last person that got into his ear said then the rest scramble to make that reality. Right now they just want numbers and they want to keep inching to a police state. It will not matter your status. Because it isn’t just about illegal immigrants and/or criminals any more. It’s about numbers and just a couple of days ago it came out that Stephen Miller and Kristi Noem want the number of deportations to go up. From In a tense meeting last week top Trump aide Stephen Miller and Homeland Security Secretary Kristi Noem demanded that immigration agents seek to arrest 3000 people a day according to two sources familiar with the meeting. Why it matters The new target is triple the number of daily arrests that agents were making in the early days of Trumps term — and suggests the presidents top immigration officials are fullsteam ahead in pushing for mass deportations. And the very last sentence of the article Trump and Vice President Vance have made clear they want to run the largest deportation operation in the countrys history with a goal of a million deportations a year. Is anyone safe? green card holders cancer patients ppl who were born here — AMERICANS! ICE at this point will defend Trump with their lives cuz THEY ARE KNOWINGLY BREAKING THE LAW All along they’ve been saying”………there’s your problem. They are liars and racists don’t listen to what they say watch what they do! Laws that are not equal for all revert to rights and privileges something contradictory to the very nature of nationstates. The clearer the proof of their inability to treat stateless people as legal persons and the greater the extension of arbitrary rule by police decree the more difficult it is for states to resist the temptation to deprive all citizens of legal status and rule them with an omnipotent police.” ― Hannah Arendt The Origins of Totalitarianism Because anti immigrant sentiment is just racism and racists dont care if youre legal or not. Theyre objection is not about legality or jobs or housing or healthcare or any other thing tthey can tenuously link back to immigrants its that they dont want to see nonwhite people Part of the project 2025 agenda. Remove all non compliant Americans. Same thing happened in WWII This is how fascism works. You start with a group of people that have the least amount of political clout blame them for all the problems you can think of and then persecute them. When they are all gone and you still have the same problems you move onto the next weakest group. It is only a matter of time until Trump starts rounding up his political rivals and anyone who didnt vote for him. The longer we sit by idly and watch the worse it will be. Isn’t his wife also an immigrant? By that definition they should also throw her ass out Theyll use their collected Palantir data to target full legal citizens with opposing views next. Guess Ill start packing a bag. Completely fucked up reality were going through right now. His cultists will cheer it all on. Democracy dies to thunderous applause. The ultimate goal of the birthright citizenship case has been to secure the power to classify individuals as being outside of US jurisdiction. In this dream scenario for the administration the courts and Congress would not be able to interfere with the executive branch when the president arbitrarily decides that you arent a citizen even if you were born here or are naturalized. But now that it seems clear that the Supreme Court would rule against the administration the new goal is to avoid nationwide injunctions so that the administration can keep creating cases that are unconstitutional. The administration loses the cases but the cases are not appealed because the winners have no reason to appeal and the administration avoids appealing in order to avoid a Supreme Court ruling that forces the administration to stop. There has always been a section on the right represented by orgs such as NumbersUSA who have said that the goal is to reduce legal immigration and cut it by half at least. Some of these people have positions of influence and are influencing policy. They always have since Trumps first term. It’s a common trick bigots use. They say they want to stop crime. It comes off as totally reasonable but really it’s not about crime it’s about making things difficult for a racial group. Today it’s immigrants. The more you ask why are they attacking innocent people the more they double on you just love criminals. Go from”? This was always the plan. It’s why Trump put a white supremacist like Stephen Miller in charge of immigration starting in their first administration. We started with legal ones as well. Yes some illegal immigrants have been deported and as it’s against the law to enter the country illegal those make sense. So many don’t make sense. Trump is about flexing power and cruelty. Nothing more If it was the administration deporting legal immigrants for serious felonies I wouldnt be against it. However this new program they have of deporting immigrants who entered the country legally and the reason they are being deported... where the immigrants only mistake was using a legal method of entry that the current administration disapproves of and that is some very unfair bullshit. It as never about illegal vs legal. It was always about immigrant” especially brown immigrant .. If things dont turn around I believe we are on track for them deporting anyone that expresses dissent from this authoritarian regime. I think were all in danger of ending up in a gulag or concentration camp in a foreign country regardless of where we are born or how many generations our family has been here. Bc America has a long history of deporting legal immigrants and CITIZENS if they are brown https//www.theguardian.com/usnews/2024/dec/03/trumpmassdeportationplan1930srepatriationprogram We are just seeing old policies and attitudes given new life as the state goes back to its draconian roots. There have been several cases of immigrants in the U.S. illegally whose small children born in the U.S. are U.S. citizens. The government claims deported parents with small children are asked whether they want to take their children with them. In a case a few weeks ago a noncustodial father objected but the custodial mothers request to take her child with her was honored. The child can return in the future. I recall a 2017 or so study showing that about 20 U.S. citizens were mistakenly deported over the prior 10 years. Roughly 5 cases involved mental illness but another 5 were people who didnt know they were U.S. citizens! They were born in the U.S. moved to another country in childhood with their parents and years later tried to enter the U.S. away from official crossings. Only postdeportation did someone realize they were U.S. citizens. With the increase in current deportations this will happen more. Do Trump supporters agree with it? Yes because they’re fascists and don’t think for themselves. If they thought for themselves they wouldn’t be Trump supporters. The GOP logic is that they were only legal because of the special protections Biden granted them and once Trump removed those protections they all became illegal again which is what theyd really been all along in the eyes of conservatives. Unfortunately I think all the highprofile crimes committed by Venezuelan gang members who were protected by this immigration policy royally screwed things up for all the people who used this program as intended to escape unsafe homelands which is a shame. This is a problem sure. The problem is that people on the left although we broadly support collectivity tend to be more free thinkers as individuals than people on the right. Herding leftists is like herding cats. One leftist group has been tearing apart every other leftist group since the damned thing began in the 18th century… Whatever the Democrats want to do it must overcome this tendency that appears to be too innate. I’m a huge fan of the Democrats becoming a party of economic populism populism isn’t a dirty word rightist populism is bad because it targets the wrong groups namely minorities. I think this has a great potential of mobilizing many people around a leftist agenda. But as to addressing the infighting I have zero clue on how we overcome this. Americans are the most compliant population on the planet. Millions of guns and a revolutionary history and the government can deport their family and friends and all theyll do is tweet about it It was never about who was here legally or not. Anyone who didn’t see that MAGA were very clearly telegraphing from the jump that they just wanted to be racist against brown people… I don’t know how to help them. It was so obvious. It was SO OBVIOUS Hitler ran on a policy of just deporting the dirty immigrant Jews and the two largest Jewish groups in Germany voted for him because they didnt think he was talking about them... and they thought he was really talking about deportation which was attempted early but nobody wanted to receive shiploads of them. Trumps actions were literally predicted in warnings from historians who recognized his rhetoric for what it iswell... Steven Millers rhetoric. I actually just came to this sub to post a similar question! If it’s all about immigrants coming here the RIGHT way” then why are we revoking previously valid VISAs and deporting US citizens??!! Because…it was never about immigration. It’s about racism. They’re treating brown” people who don’t speak much English…like Jews in 1939. It’s no different!! When will we learn from history???!!! Because it was never about illegal immigrants. It was about brown people replacing real americans. I think temporary programs are just that temporary. They can be created and cancelled by the stroke of a pen. Even DACA was created by executive action and the Trump admin did try to cancel the program during their first term. So if one is under such programs it is always better to be ready and try to adjust to another permanent status while you still have a chance to be in the country. Because it was never really about finding the illegal ones it was about finding the brown ones. eventually he will be deporting american citizens born here. whose parents were born here and whose Grand Parents were born here. but theyre not White. so they must go. THIS is his ultimate goal. It’s called racism and fascism. That is where America is at the moment. Why isn’t the press asking the serious questions? It lines up with the Great Replacement Conspiracy Theory. In that Theory Immigrants represent an existential threat to American Culture White People. So the first people to go are illegal immigrants but very next on the list are any woke immigrants because their liberal beliefs makes them part of this great replacement. At Least thats how the logic plays out when you look at it from the conservative perspective. From the Conservative perspective Democrats are importing liberal immigrants who will have Citizen babies who will grow up to solidify the Democrats grip on power and eliminate White Conservatives and their culture. So any immigrants that are not American White Christian Conservative must be removed from the country. Also part of the goal is to scare people into Self Deporting Conservatives would prefer that immigrants legal or illegal leave and go home. because it was a temporary program? the bigger question is why Haiti was on the list for so long... I can understand temporarily accepting displaced migrants after an earthquake BUT THAT WAS IN 2010 Because too many here are not well informed across many sources of news. It has long been known that many here as refugees are not legal because they didn’t apply for refugee status in the first country they were safe from the conditions of their country. The previous administration turned a blind eye towards this. This administration does not. For those better informed stop with the willful ignorance. You can’t be taken seriously when you aren’t making a good faith argument. Thats an easy question you live in a fascist country. Fascists do stuff like that. Keep asking these questions and they may come for you as well. havent actually seen any examples of legal immigrants being deportedcan you give some examples? Turning people who would normally never be legally admitted via the visa process into legal immigrants via TPS doesnt make me want them here any more. Yes most Trump supporters explicitly voted for this. Legal residency granted via the stroke of a pen can just as easily be revoked with the stroke of a pen. Fascism is a slippery slope. They’re not even hiding it because there is t a mechanism to stop them. They are ignoring rulings and going after judges. I’m not sure why we would expect any less from a lawless POTUS and administration. And this crap will continue until we take physical action. [removed] Ah but when they illegally revoke their protected status they will automatically become illegal immigrants AND THEN they get deported. No conflict. No dissonance. The leader is good The leader is great. Because turns out illegal immigration took a nose dive after 2007 when we had the highest amount of illegal immigration and it’s been blown out of proportion ever since. And not wanting to admit that it’s actually just about racism they’d rather deport legal ones. They’re gonna push the envelope as much as they can till we push back. They want to desensitize everyone &amp instill fear. That way when they escalate no one fights back. Cuz folks will be too afraid they’ll be next. I mean most of us that voted for the democrats last year were saying this would happen. Idk where you were during his last term or the four years after it where the GOP was extremely strongly insinuating that this was exactly the sort of thing they were going for. Trump did this in his first 4 years as president too but no one seems to remember the Muslim ban and sending people from certain countries home Now he is just doing it even more and not only to Muslims They always wanted no immigration! If there is any only from white European countries. Idk but honestly high skill legal immigration is going to be a much bigger problem than Jose who hopped the border and cuts your grass You always start with the lowest hanging fruit first. The administration target is to have a 100% white nation. Getting rid of immigrants is just step 1. OP didnt read the article at all. The people who would not normally be let in were allowed to come here and become legal residents. Because it was never about illegal/legal status it was always about skin color. This was always going to happen. The moment they put a quota on ICE it was going to be open season on any immigrant. What brown teenage me heard in 1996 why are you complaining? Prop 187 is only gonna go after the *illegal* immigrants! What undercover whitepassing teenage me overheard at my white friends parents houses goddamn fuckin [slur for Mexicans] ruined the fuckin Valley! Im not saying that peoples stated exclusive focus on illegal immigration is bad faith in every case. But at least in those days there was more going on beneath the surface than just that. Me and everyone else like me knew it at the time. The fallout from the Pete Wilson era is a *major* reason why its pretty hard to imagine the California GOP producing a governor or a senator any time in the foreseeable future. Because Democrats capitulated to Republicans demands normalizing them. Republicans went crazier to stand out. Bipartisanship with fascists isnt possible its not being the adult in the room its called being a coward. Everything is just a leverage and could be challenged. It’s better to keep it in the political context. You can come here legally on a tourist visa but overstaying that visa makes you illegal. It also makes it harder for others to get visitor visas as the US government assumes most people from south of the border will overstay their visa. I live in Panama very rarely do I hear of anyone getting a visa unless they have money. I can bring my maid but must sign that I will pay her medical bills and she cannot stay in the USA one day without me. Its not good for tourist destinations. So much beauty in our National Parks.... we can go to Macchu Picu but they cannot come here. Because deporting immigrants they dont like regardless of status was always the plan. Saying they would only do it to illegal and criminal immigrants was just campaign talking points to make it more palatable to the voters. Immigration has become the radioactive third rail of politics for the Democratic Party since Joe Robinette Biden. If Dems want to win elections they have to cede this issue to Republicans. People forget that President Obama was called the deportee in chief for the number of illegal immigrants he deported. Regrettably it is the goal of the Trump regime to have as many immigrants legal and illegal kicked permanently out of t he country. They ahem Stephen Miller is testing every possibility in order to get these folks out of the country. This nativist attitude and behavior is nothing new. It just seems more vicious now since we are sliding backward into authoritarianism and fascism. An all white country is the final goal Post 38 Did the 2017 tax cuts TCJA pay for themselves through growth or add to the deficit? The 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act TCJA was passed with the argument that tax reductions particularly corporate rate cuts would generate enough economic growth to offset their cost. This theory was central to justifying the laws estimated $1.5 trillion price tag over 10 years. Eight years later a range of independent economic models suggest that this growth fell far short of expectations. The Penn Wharton Budget Model estimates that only 4% of the lost revenue was recovered through growth. The Congressional Budget Office estimates a range of 1% to 5% depending on assumptions and the Joint Committee on Taxation has similarly estimated 2% to 6%. Corporate tax receipts declined more than expected and overall federal revenue remains low as a share of GDP. Extending the expiring provisions is now projected to add $3.4 trillion to the federal deficit over the next decade. The temporary design of the TCJA where individual cuts expire while corporate cuts were made permanent reduced its apparent cost during the 10year budget window but created recurring political pressure to extend the cuts. That structure has implications for longterm fiscal planning and budget transparency. Recent proposals like exempting tips from income tax appear to follow a similar pattern temporary tax relief thats politically popular in the short term but potentially costly if extended indefinitely. These dynamics raise important questions about how we design tax policy. Should we rely on optimistic growth projections to justify revenue losses? And what lessons should we take from the TCJA when evaluating new proposals?​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​ Edit to frame the intended question and discussion a little more tightly most models agree the TCJA did not fully pay for itself. Accordingly how should this data inform and impact current tax debates? Should this outcome affect how new tax cut proposals that claim to be offset by growth be viewed and legislated? And what responsibility do policymakers have to revisit these claims given that realworld results diverge from the often rosy growth based assumptions? . This is a subreddit for genuine discussion * Please keep it civil. Report rulebreaking comments for moderator review. * Dont post low effort comments like joke threads memes slogans or links without context. * Help prevent this subreddit from becoming an echo chamber. Please dont downvote comments with which you disagree. Violators will be fed to the bear. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Not really a political question because its an objective fact that the TCJA did not pay for itself. You even say so yourself. Honestly not sure of the point of this question. Did the 2017 tax cuts TCJA * Pay for themselves through growth? NO * Add to the deficit? YES Republicans have been claiming that lowering taxes on the wealthy and corporations will generate more money in the long run by stimulating investment thus driving revenue growth. That thesis has never proven to be true yet they make the same argument every time they are in charge of the government. US revenue rose from 3.3T to about 5.5T today so Sorta. If we had not added so much spending in the post Covid years our budget would be very closed to balanced. I dont dont give full credit on just the tax cuts though the economy almost always grows. Should we rely on optimistic growth projections to justify revenue losses? Its probably safe to project growth but not much. And what lessons should we take from the TCJA when evaluating new proposals?​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​ Its crazy our US revenue went from 3.3T to 5.5T in about 9 years but theres estimates out there that this tax plan only recovered 4% of the tax cuts. Through natural economic growth a major disaster and 2 different presidents having economic plans same tax plan basically though we have almost doubled our tax revenue. By that metric I think the TCJA was a net positive. Post 39 Do you think that Senator Chris Van Hollen would be a viable Democratic presidential candidate in 2028? Author a run for president in 2028. Senator Van Hollen has gained a strong following recently in part due to his stances on the issues of immigration and Gaza. After a second Trump term the electorate may be desperate for a genuine down to earth candidate who can restore trust in government. Sort of like the appeal of Jimmy Carter after Nixon when Americans were looking for a leader who could bring the country back together and lead with honesty and moral clarity. Like Senator Van Hollen Jimmy Carter was also relatively unknown when he announced his campaign for president in 1974 but he quickly became frontrunner in a crowded Democratic primary field. At the moment do you view Senator Van Hollen as a viable 2028 candidate? Why or why not? Do you believe that he would be able to unite the progressive and centrist wings of the Democratic Party? Finally if Senator Van Hollen were to win the Democratic nomination in 2028 would you vote for him in a hypothetical election against JD Vance or Rubio? . This is a subreddit for genuine discussion * Please keep it civil. Report rulebreaking comments for moderator review. * Dont post low effort comments like joke threads memes slogans or links without context. * Help prevent this subreddit from becoming an echo chamber. Please dont downvote comments with which you disagree. Violators will be fed to the bear. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* I mean maybe but why? I think we should stop latching on to people for just doing one thing and making that our new jero. There’s better candidates 2020 showed how hard it is for random straight white male Democrats without a national profile to be competitive in a Democratic primary. There were many of them in 2020 and the majority did not even make it to a state contest. Im expecting a crowded primary in 2028 and I dont really see a place for him unless he starts working on his national profile right now. He seems to be just your standard Democrat and if your personal identity doesnt help you stand out then your politics need to help you stand out and he doesnt have that either. I heard him speak at a University of Maryland commencement his first year in office. He was not inspiring. Solid political operator from what I understand though. Huge fan of his policies but he lacks the necessary charisma to be a viable contender. Not even close. He does not have any national visibility and his political history lacks any real depth. He has lead no far reaching policies. On the national stage no one really seems to know him. Would be like pulling a random person off the street and making them a frontrunner for President. I believe he was not born in the US. That said if he was born on US embassy property or something that would give him natural US citizenship then I suppose we would just see Rightwing talking points about him not being a citizen. Viable? Sure. A winning candidate we would have to see how primaries go. I think so. He will still be in his sixties then but a respectable looking gray haired dude and his family and him have been in public service all their lives of course Fox news will turn that into a negative. Not a lot of name recognition yet. Not flashy which will be a big change from the showboat just in office so that might be a big plus. I would vote for a moldy dishrag in 2028 over any Republican. The insane level of corruption in this administration needs to be prosecuted energetically. If he’s not charismatic af then no. Charisma any other qualification. Fuck losing. No. The dude went to El Salvador as a media stunt. Where is that guy now? Still in El Salvador. That was a stupid move and Republicans had a field day showing how inept of a move that was for himself and Democrats. How exactly is going to a different country to advocate for an Illegal Immigrant to come back into our country helping the American people? It was stupid. Most people think he’s stupid for doing it. And he would be destroyed out of the primary the second Trump tweets about it Hes fighting for his constituents in a way almost no one is. Hes probably doing the most visible good and acting like a moral center in a party needing one. I dont know that hes the best candidate but he is far from the bottom and would be a fantastic president. Seriously doubt it but its a nice thought. Be nice to move on from Spiro Agnew being the last Marylander being in/near the White House. I don’t think so. As one of his constituents and having voted for him I am frustrated with him. He could have done a few things before going to El Salvador to visit the jail. I was on a group phone call with a bunch of constituents and Senator Alsobrooks. She is new. He did a lot of complaining with no plausible action plans. As a Senator who has been in the Senate a long time he should have the ability to deal with minority attacks that are effective. Why is he not working with Bernie Sanders and AOC? It would be good if he did some of the stuff they did. Maybe if they all had gone to El Salvador things would have happened. I’m don’t know him but would certainly be willing to consider him. My favorite is Chris Murphy right now. I’m really hoping the DNC will look beyond the current media hyped front runners” such as Newsom Harris AOC and Buttegieg. Each have their own baggage that is too much to overcome. AOC and Pete might make good VP candidates. Even though he is from Maryland he is not widely popular among even Maryland Democrats unfortunately. Its really...odd. I like him. I just think its weird A relatively unknown name would be our best bet. Someone the GOP media aparatus has not spent years villifying. That’s why I think AOC Walz and Buttigiege are not the ideal choice right now. Lol...no...the dude running around trying to get a wife beating gangbanger human trafficking El Salvadorian back to the US on taxpayers dime should be heckled off the stage faster than Biden got dumped after the debate last summer. He’s old. I am sick of the Boomers telling younger generations that they know everything even though they have flip phones. I think anyone who wants to run should throw their hat in the ring. I also think the DNC should let the Primary process play out and not designate the winner 2 weeks into the process. He just seems like another establishment white man wholl be pushing 70 by the time of the election. Wouldnt do well in a fair primary. Trump exposed the crazies who live amongst us. Democrats need someone who has just a bit of crazy in them with a harsh mouth but unlike nongraduate school graduate Trump with a lot more education and far better speaking skills than Oompa Loompas weave. Yes here’s why https//open.substack.com/pub/certainthoughts/p/chrisvanhollenforpresident?r=c8x12&amputm_medium=ios I mean I guess so. He probably has as good a shot as anyone else. The bench isn’t very deep. I’ve been hearing JB Pritzker AOC and even Kamala Harris’ name thrown around a lot. If Democrats want to win the election they CANNOT go with AOC or Harris. This is just me but the fact that hes been vocal about the atrocities in Gaza would win my vote for him. Perhaps hes the man the Democrats have been sleeping on for too long. Any viable candidate can be disappeared to El Salvador so Im not sure it matters. Too liberal a state... Need to win purple state with prez and maybe VP Rs should think the same OP asked about electibilty I’m an American. I’ve been to several countries in Europe and Asia. I’ve also been to Canada. It would never cross my mind to enter any of those countries illegally and then do the things Abrego Garcia is alleged to have done in the USA. I get the argument that our constitutional rights must be defended at the fringes but I care more about myself and my family than about Abrego Garcia. That said Democrats like Van Hollen are making a mistake by standing up for the fringe elements and not pushing issues that affect the majority. Going to El Salvador and having drinks with Abrego Garcia was a stupid political stunt. Ditto for Democrats wanting to die on the hill of the right of biological males playing in women’s sports. Other countries ARE using tariffs against the USA. Trump using extreme tariffs indiscriminately is wrong but at least he’s addressing the problem albeit clumsily. Ditto for cutting waste fraud and abuse in government. Even Trump wanted to go easy on Medicaid. Where are the Democrats on cutting waste fraud and abuse? Oh yeah they’re calling Musk a Nazi. Torching Teslas! Wow! That’s going to make me feel better as I’m trying to buy my first home! Let’s just put it this way he will forever be associated with aiding an illegal potential MS13 gang member. The Republican attack ads basically write themselves. He’s lucky he didn’t end up stuck in El Salvador. TLDR absolutely no chance No next question. Non progressive democrats don’t really stand a chance. The best theoretical candidate would be a 30/40 year old male Bernie Sandersesque candidate. We will see who that ends up being but they will likely come out of nowhere. Assuming we even have a fair 2028 election that is. Shit might be too cooked. no I think his name sounds like a character from a vampire movie and that alone is enough to disqualify him. Going to dinner at the white house would be impossible. Post 40 How do you think Democrats will do in these midterms compared to 2018? Im wondering how people think Democrats will perform in the upcoming midterms especially in contrast to what we saw in 2018. That year they had a big wave flipping the House mostly from gaining suburban districts. But a lot has changed since then and key issues like abortion inflation and democracy itself have taken increased prominence Some people I see argue that Democrats are better organized now than they were in 2018 whilst others have said that voter enthusiasm has declined. Turnout trends redistricting and how independents lean will probably matter a lot I assume. Im curious what you guys think the key differences are in terms of things such as voter coalitions messaging and national mood. Is a repeat of 2018 likely or are we looking at a different scenario? . This is a subreddit for genuine discussion * Please keep it civil. Report rulebreaking comments for moderator review. * Dont post low effort comments like joke threads memes slogans or links without context. * Help prevent this subreddit from becoming an echo chamber. Please dont downvote comments with which you disagree. Violators will be fed to the bear. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* In political terms the 2026 midterms are still a lifetime away. So many things will happen in between now and then it’s impossible to say with any degree of accuracy. Historical trends tell us that the party out of power typically wins the midterms which suggests Democrats will flip the house but we need to remember the 2020 round of redistricting eliminated most of the swing districts from 2018. So my best guess as of today would be Dems take the house but by a much smaller margin than in 2018. They should pull the house maybe the senate. Thats fairly normal for American politics. They might get extra in the house but most states are so gerrymandered as to make elections increasingly irrelevant. Ohios not going to see a single seat flip despite several parts of the state being massively negatively impacted by the Trump administration. Not feeling great about it. Based on nothing but vibes. The moment and energy doesn’t feel there like it was in 2018. Our only hope is that both sides are equally burned out. Democrats gained 41 seats in the House in 2018. I doubt they’ll gain that many simply because Democrats are starting from a higher floor 215 seats vs. 194. However if there is a similar blue wave D+8 in 2026 Democrats probably win more seats than they did in 2018. They won 235 last time but the 2020 maps actually more efficiently distribute Democratic votes hence Democrats came very close to winning the House in 2022 and 2024 despite losing the popular vote by about 3 points each time. In that scenario they’re at around 240 seats. Honestly as long as Democrats win the popular vote they win the House but psychologically they need to do more than just limp over the finish line. In the Senate Democrats probably make gains holding their seats and flip Maine and North Carolina although they probably will need a pretty favorable environment for that. I don’t think they’d flip the Senate unless if the environment is closer to D+9 or D+10 since they have to win at least 2 doubledigit Trump states probably some combination of Ohio Alaska Texas or Iowa. On the state level Democrats honestly break even in governorships given how well they did here in 2022. They hold almost every swing seat already and are term limited in Kansas. Maybe they get an upset in Iowa but in Michigan the asshole mayor of Detroit is running as an Independent which can split the vote in a major Democratic voting base. Democrats actually have a lot of room to grow in State legislative chambers given better redistricting post2020 that they haven’t had a favorable environment to capitalize on both chambers in Wisconsin Arizona and New Hampshire plus the Minnesota House Michigan House and Pennsylvania Senate are all gettable. Here even a D+5 environment would be good for Democrats. The question is whether they can capitalize on Trump’s unpopularity like last time. Democrats are at D+2 on the generic ballot today similar to this point in 2017 Democrats didn’t open a big lead until 2018. However psychologically the party is in a very different place. Trump shockingly won in 2016 and lost the popular vote— Democrats were pissed off and motivated. Today Trump’s win was not unexpected he managed to win the popular vote and critically improved pretty much everywhere. Democrats had a clear path to victory for 2018 through the suburbs that swung from Romney to Clinton. Last year Harris more or less stagnated in the suburbs and only improved in some random 8020 red counties in the middle of the country. The gubernatorial races in New Jersey and Virginia this year will hopefully provide some instruction of who and where to focus their efforts on. If insane stuff like tariffs gutting agencies cutting healthcare and arresting anyone who is not a felon persists I think we’ll see some Republicans flip. Atlas Intel which is considered a more right leaning pollster has Democrats +9 on a generic ballot. I’m not saying they do that well but it’s very likely they at least regain the House. A solid outcome for Senate would be to pick up a seat or two. Were in an era with the fewest D+5 to R+5 Cook PVI congressional districts due to dual dueled gerrymandering GOP in 2010 Dems in 2020 and increased polarization not seen since the mid19th century thus I wager 2026 wont be a midterm wave but rather a trickle. Yall know that the two main voting blocs who got Trump elected arent redditors right? Boomers/BoomerXers arent ever going to stop voting Republican. GenZ/TikTokGen arent going to care until they get hurt. The TradWife/ProElon Joe Rogan GenZ zeitgeist dont think theres anything really wrong and were all just acting like alarmist babies still wearing sideparts and hung up on that tankie thing. They were never going to own homes they never lived in a world where clicking okay on a Disney+ EULA didnt exempt the company from liability for serving a guest allergens at the theme park. They never worked a job where the boss *didnt* make them do some work while clocked out. They never lived in a world where it *wasnt* standard and normal to exploit and monetize every single thought that pops into your head even if you have to exaggerate and tell lies to get people to click. Facts have never been static. They have always been subjective. Thats just not what I choose to believe is a perfect rational response to someone explaining how vaccines work. Nothing that outrages us even matters to them. Its all normal. Decency doesnt exist. The Constitution doesnt matter...whatever bullshit is in it. Altruism is a performative thing people do when they film themselves giving money to a homeless person and put it up on YouTube. Science is a cult. Not only is nothing anyone ever does just for free/for the joy of it but now anything you like you have to agree to pay for monthly to keep engaging with it. Hit that like button and get on Patreon because the answers to all your questions are for my patrons only. Link in the description and dont forget to hit up my Temu wishlist. Nobody ever says what they mean and everything is hyperbole and thats perfectly normal. We dont have a chance until it starts hurting them and they start feeling some of the outrage we feel. But this is all normal. This is really fine. Were the ones being irrationally bratty and extra about everything as far as theyre concerned. So I dont know that its ever going to change. I dont know how to bluepill them. We just have to wait until it gets bad. Trumps economic policies will eventually lead to a nasty recession maybe even depression but he is a very shrewd and ruthless politician presiding over a quite effective political organization. Whether Democrats take back the House in 2026 depends on how the economy is doing. My guess is it will still be OK in which case the Republicans keep both houses. This is assuming that the elections won’t be tampered with and or challenged in courts. Just look at the Supreme Court election in NC months and months of law suits showing the Rep Judge lost yet more law suits were filed. The election was almost stolen by the republican with gerrymandering and trying to alter laws in court. Let’s hope things swing a little and we get some people with integrity making laws. Yes I know fat chance. The party of the president tends to lose ground in the House during midterms. Their turnout drops because the presidential election always gets more attention and those voters are not as agitated due to having won the last election. This factor may be worse than usual for the GOP because Trump attracted a lot of occasional marginally attached voters who are not partyloyal. They voted for Trump not necessarily for other Republicans so the drop in turnout could be substantial enough that some seats flip by default. On the other hand the Dems are also sucking wind. The party that opposes the president makes gain in midterms because they are invaribly unhappy but the Dems are rudderless and have no coherent message. They are probably still going to make gains but they may be less impressive than they should be given the circumstances. The damage Trump is causing is far more substantial this time and the anger will surely raise Democrats boats just as the anger against Obama did for Republicans in 2010. That said there simply arent as many seats to flip as there were in 2018 so dont expect the same massive gains. The GOP barely has control. But they will almost certainly lose it as the realignment of parties on educational lines means the Democrats now have the more reliable voters. They will definitely show up in the midterms. Trumps less reliable coalition wont. Democrats will take back the House fairly easily. The kind of systemic problems that made 2024 an antiincumbent year are still going to be here in 2026. The swing voters who voted for Trump for a reason other than hes not Harris did so because they felt he might do two things lower inflation and provide stability and he is blowing both of those things. People are already burning out on the weirdness and the incoherent cultural warfare. I dont think it will be a blue wave like 2018 though unless the economy crashes. I think there will be quite a bit of voter suppression and dirty tricks from the administration that will limit Democrats gains at least until a bunch of challenged results and court cases work their way through the system. To prevent the opposition party from winning the midterms following a presidential election by a landslide you need to perform very well and maintain a lot of popularity. Trump’s approval is cratering before his honeymoon phase” is even supposed to be over. Most presidents 4 months in are doing pretty well. It’s going to be a big blue wave if Trump doesn’t rack up some big wins in the next year and a half and win back the American public’s affection. This sub doesnt want to hear it but it will be closer to Republicans in 2022who won massively in the popular vote but because gerrymandering is now so set in stone made no significant gains. People just arent as angry about Trump this time Bidens term took the wind out of their sails. They dont feel as morally pure as they used to after that debacle which is how MOST voters see it. Theyre having a much harder time convincing themselves that this is all Russian interference and trolls. On the other side of things Republicans were ANGRY at most of their leadership and representatives due to how stridently antiTrump many of them were and how much they got in the way of his agenda. Those Republicans are either retired replaced or have bent the knee. There will not be low turnout among Republicans which was a key part of the 2018 victory. They’ll do well just by the thermostatic principles of American politics. It’s the next presidential that they’re in trouble Given the total dogshit that runs the democrats at every level they will underperform. A bunch of entitled elitists who want to be the workers” party. I’ll never vote for a republican but I’m not giving them a dime until the Party leadership is gone. Not worth a darn if they don’t get off the 8020 issues and figure out how to talk to the electorate using normal language Win alot of house seats but get to 50 senators at best. Thermostatic opinion is real and dems have an advantage in lower turnout elections like midterms I really cant imagine the republicans will keep control of the house. I think the slim republican majority will flip to a slim democratic majority. Without a recession I dont think the democrats will take control of the senate. Unless there is a recession I think the best the democrats can hope for is a 50/50 split. They’ll loose because no one has done anything to reverse any of the voter suppression legislation and gerrymandering that republicans have done. They’ll keep losing until we have fair elections. We’re still a long way from the midterms and a lot can change between now and then. Ultimately it’s going to come down to two things economic conditions and messaging. The good news is Republicans are making it extremely easy for Democrats to campaign. We don’t need a complex message—just a clear vision that connects with everyday voters. We want to protect Social Security. Full stop. You paid into it—you should get your check. We want to fund cancer and HIV research. Let scientists do their job without political interference. We want to strengthen and modernize the Department of Education because our kids deserve better than falling test scores and outdated methods. We want stable trade policy—not tariffs that flipflop week to week. Let’s partner with allies outcompete China and keep prices low. These aren’t radical ideas—they’re common sense. We don’t need to bury voters in white papers. Trump proved that voters want a vision. Let’s win then bring in the experts to work out the details. Democrats will murder the GOP with all the MAGA stupidity and sycophantic behavior on display. Even with a reasonable policy Trump and his minions come across like national thugs with a propaganda machine in support. The left is no better. An American can hardly have a reasoned conversation. My prediction is theyll still take the house but by a small margin . The Senate will remain with GOP. I have absolutely no confidence in democrats right now. My gut feeling is theyre trying to push Pete Buttigieg for 2028. While Pete is probably one of the BEST speakers out there hes gay. Dont get me wrong I couldnt care less that hes gay hell I couldnt care less if someone was a gay transwoman of color but Im not everyone. The last election showed that Americans are stupid. Sorry but Dems need to put someone who has the least baggage. Being a Democrat is enough baggage. But add gay? Add California Newsome? Add Chicago Pritzker? If you have to explain things youve already lost. For Newsome people will just say California. Doesnt matter that California is basically a whole countrys economy. Doesnt matter that Pritzker is Illinois gov people will just say Chicago and it doesnt matter that there are plenty of cities with higher gun murder rates in red states than Chicago the argument is just Chicago. Right wing media has also infiltrated moderates/independents. The right is so much better at propaganda and Dems need to play around it and that includes pushing the candidate with the least amount of easy arguments against them. It doesnt matter if those arguments are good or not it should be obvious that any simple argument works look at the Gaza arguments against Harris. Trump was/is objectively worse on Gaza than Harris but that didnt seem to make a difference. Its why I think Dems need to put up the safest candidates in both 26 and 28 and sorry but that might mean pushing straight white guys. It fucking sucks but the country isnt in an accepting mood right now. Honestly if Dems played their cards right in 26 then in 28 theyd have much more freedom to push whoever they wanted. If they had strong enough numbers in 26 to have strong control they could push enough to show Dems can have a good economy which would setup a strong 2028. But my worry is that even knowing the Republican playbook and knowing what to do to win I dont see Dems playing the right game. I think the Dems will win the house in 2026 but by no way as many seats as 2018. They’re so close to a majority already and there are fewer and fewer swing seats. As for the Senate…..let’s just hope they can tread water. Republicans are going to pull out all of the stops to ensure that their king will keep the means to pass his bills. At the moment I think they will do well regardless just based on the Trump shit show…which is a problem for anyone expecting some kind of bold strategy from the Dems. They haven’t had to change anything and so far it looks like they aren’t so they are still putting out that closeted corporatacratic policy that helped them lose in 2016 and 2024. The party as a whole is weak and completely controlled by big money. It can be broken but it would take a large polarizing force like Trump obviously someone less of a POS At this point there is really no reason to anticipate a Dem win in any election cycle within the next decade. And by then it wont matter anymore anyway. The Dems are cooked. Bernie and AOC cant carry the whole party in perpetuity. Bernie probably wont even be alive a decade from now. We have no one fighting for us. Best case scenario is that things are gonna get a lot worse before they get better. Worst case scenario is that things are gonna get a lot worse for the rest of our lifetimes and possibly beyond. I think the misinformation from AI will be so bad that Im not sure how democrats will do. As others have said the 2026 midterms are still over a year away. The best we can do is speculate based on the information we have now. If you had asked this question a month ago Republicans would’ve been the favorites to win GA’s Senate seat but now Jon Ossoff is favored to win reelection. Nonetheless unless something worldaltering happens in the next year Democrats are likely to win the House—albeit not by 2018 levels. Why? Historically the nonincumbent party loses seats in the midterms and the Republican majority in the House is already slim. There are a boatload of races that Democrats narrowly lost in 2024 which provided a favorable national environment for them they can flip. As for the Senate the general consensus is that Republicans will hold their majority but could lose a seat or two. Right now I largely agree but Democratic prospects have been getting better recently ex. Brian Kemp announcing that he won’t run for Senate. But anything could happen. In my mind one thing is for sure though enthusiasm among voters for Democrats is low. So a 2018type blowout is unlikely. Just based on maps and past midterm trends Democrats will probably flip the House but Republicans will probably keep the Senate. The margins cannot be predicted until closer to the midterms a lot can happen between now and then. I think they’re gonna win across the border — even if they run Big Bird. For no other reason than the Democrats have won EVERY SINGLE ELECTION after republicans promise the WORLD &amp crash the economy. In 30 years it’s NEVER failed. The electronic is impatient &amp irrational. In the age of Trump Republicans have a problem getting Trump people to bother to vote when Trump himself is not on the ballot. You saw it in 2018 and 2022. And youll likely see it again in 2026. I think dems win the mid terms handily. That said people have pathetically short memories. As evidenced by the current occupant of the oval office. Dems will win but unless they use that momentum to actually deliver MATERIAL improvements to the lives of the average American we will end up with another trump from the right. Not as good because the baseline is lower but I think theyll get about 230 seats in the house about 48 in the Senate likely hold steady gubernatorially and win the House PV by 34%. The Trump administration is a clusterfuck of corruption incompetence and malice. Yet i havent really heard much from the democrats about anything. There are more Reps in the news against Trump then Democrats. And it goes deeper than that. Trump has an audience because even if he is the worst choice for the job he still is on topics the voter is invested in. Namely the debt spiral perceived social economic and security concerns due to immigration gangs inequality in the USeconomy the progressive pace of personal freedoms in a deeply religious and reactive country. The overall decline of white male dominace and so on. Note that i disagree with almost all of those MAGA voters topics but those topics are obviously relevant for the american voter. Trump can be as much of a failure as he is he just needs to lie and brag about it. With oneliners the voters can get behind. There is just no alternative for those voters in the democratic party. Personally i think the best option the democrats would have is to build up someone like **Josh Shapiro**. A person who like Trump can pitch the sale that he gets things done. A realist. But also as a bridge to former Trump voters. You ment shisms by moving towards each other not by moving to the extremes. As much as i as a german would love someone like Bernie Sanders or AOC because i think the american political system is already too far right for any freedom loving democracy those are not the names that will unit this country. You need to start with smaller steps not expect total victory just because the other side bets on a desaster like Trump. My take Its naive to expect that the US will have meaningful midterm elections. There are so many ways that the MAGA GOP could interfere with and manipulate them. Just one More than 85% of Americas votes are counted by two private secretive corporations Dominion and ES&ampS. Dominion is actually the lesser player ES&ampS is the giant. They maintain and program the machines with ZERO oversight by federal or state officials. And Americas local election clerks are babes in the woods when it comes to managing technology. If you dont believe me ask your own local elections clerk Who does the maintenance and updates on the computers that tabulate our votes? How do you oversee that maintenance and update workthat is how would you know if they did it incorrectly or installed any unauthorized softward? How would you notice if the machines tabulated VOTES not ballots VOTES incorrectly on Election Day? and If you ever do notice that the machines miscounted on Election Night what is your procedure for correcting the vote totals before you certify? Ask. Do it. Listen to the answers carefully keeping in mind the expertise and resources available to the malefactors who want to substitute their will for that of the voters. You will NOT be reassured by your clerks answers. Once you understand how little control our election clerks have over the computers that calculate our vote totalsand that they might not even NOTICE miscounted election results you realize that Musk or any other rich guy could bribe just a few insiders at either Dominion or ES&ampS to tweak just a few jurisdictions in just a few states to make sure the MAGA team keeps control of Congress. Why wouldnt they? Can you honestly say that anyone can stop them the way we operate our elections? PS Theres time before November 2026 to make sure your town city or state a uses handmarked paper ballots. That is dont let a computer create the only hardcopy record of your vote and particularly dont let your vote be recorded in a QR or bar code and b requires clerks to perform a transparent handcounted ***risklimiting audit*** google it ***of the top races*** on the ballot BEFORE they certify the results. Thats all thats needed to protect our our elections from malicious computer programming. Democrats are in a pretty bad position. Trump=Hitler is not a winning strategy. Unless they come up with policies of their own theyre in trouble. Climate change and trans rights are not it. Theyre aware of this. Just listen to the ones who are with it like Slotkin for example and you see theyre trying to recalibrate. Poorly especially given the party’s disastrous disapproval rating in the polls. Hard to say. One big problem facing democrats is that people have tuned out of TV news. Too many big things up in the air right now. It will largely depend on how well Republicans follow Trumps lead. If they modify the DOGE cuts and make the DOGE Dividend a reality they will have the election in the bag. However it cannot be understated how much the GOP likes to shoot themselves in the foot. I mean its cute that you think there will be a real election? And not a convenient indefinite national emergency and/or perpetual/overlapping martial law and/or blatant outintheopen cheating with all his previous tricks on steroids with a typical dictator victory of 95% or something. I really dont understand how people have their heads so far in the sand as to just assume there will ever be elections in America again. I hope Im wrong and recognize theres a small chance I could be. The Democratic party as a whole is in horrible shape. They are still in the wilderness after the debacle in November. Theyve lost a lot of their voters and the only way to get them back is to pivot on some important issues such as those involving the trans community and immigration. What they have going for them is buyers remorse from some that voted for Trump in November and the historical difficulty the presidents party has in the midterm elections. Overall its not going to be as strong as in 2018 but I think the Democrats will eke out control of the House and narrow the Republicans Senate majority by one or maybe even two seats. Post 41 If Biden’s age wasn’t a problem would he have won the election? If Joe Bidens fitness for office wasnt in such obvious decline would he have won the 2024 presidential election? In this hypothetical the first presidential debate would have no clear winner with Biden being able to effectively attack Trump on key issues and vice versa. Lets assume he would still seem sharp and acute much like his 2020 self. Kamala Harris would still be his VP pick obviously but all of the general discontent with the Biden administration among voters would remain. Im quite curious to hear your thoughts who wouldve won the electionand why? . This is a subreddit for genuine discussion * Please keep it civil. Report rulebreaking comments for moderator review. * Dont post low effort comments like joke threads memes slogans or links without context. * Help prevent this subreddit from becoming an echo chamber. Please dont downvote comments with which you disagree. Violators will be fed to the bear. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Inflation was the big story. It took a once in a century pandemic for Trump to lose by a few thousand votes in a few key states in 2020. They werent doing it again with eggs at $8 a dozen whether it was their fault or not. Biden without his health decline would have been more competitive against Trump in PA and MI. That alone could have changed the outcome of the elections. Trump didnt win by a huge margin over Harris. Its impossible to know because 2023 was when the age issue became quite problematic for Biden. So we dont have polls that reflect a healthy Biden vs. Trump matchup. Based on the 2022 midterms that went a lot better than expected for Dems and Biden was healthier then Id argue yes. Bidens overwhelming problem was his age and perception of infirmity. He may have won anyway for all we know. He’s the only candidate who ever beat Trump I think Biden would have won. As it ended up he dropped out at the last minute was replaced by a black woman with no primary exposure and no time to develop a leadership message and Trump still won by less than 2%. Bidens performance in the debate was devastating if he had done well instead I think things would have been much different. Trump would have tried to steal the election like he did in 2020 and he would have failed again. Age per se wasn’t the problem what was going on or not between his ears was the problem. Its hard to say. Would the things that people disliked about Biden have been different without his age and the subsequent coverup? Maybe maybe not. Inflation wouldnt have that die had long been cast. His inability to go out there and sell his agenda might have. If he had stepped aside a year earlier rather than stubbornly clinging to his legacy and the people propping him up put the country before their love for the man then theres a good chance Trump would have lost. But it would have been close in any of these possibilities. How would it not be a factor? He just looks old along with his mental decline. If he wasnt falling apart? Still lose and blamed for inflation. He barely beated Trump after Trump fucked up the pandemic response utterly. Trump started at a lower level of fitness for office than Biden finished at If you are asking if Biden with his health could have won then I would say that he could have had a shot with proper optics management in place. The guy was never a great speaker. Democrats are obsessed with debates in spite of the political science research that shows that they dont help and can hurt. It was stupid to put him onto a stage particularly when his opponent was already grandstanding against debates. He could have gotten away with it. But he also had other issues that hurt him. However those issues were largely avoidable. The progressives wanted to believe that his 2020 election was a grand statement against rightwing authoritarianism but he cliched the vote by appealing to centrist fears of COVID. Centrists want stability. The Afghan pullout looked anything but stable. What was remarkable is that Biden took ownership of it even though the failure was set up by Trump before Biden ever entered office. He also overstimulated the economy once it became evident that there would be no doubledip. The progressives were falsely claiming based upon their misunderstanding of Modern Monetary Theory that was no such thing as excess spending and it was foolish to listen to them. His approach to Gaza cost them Michigan. Trusting Netanyahu is never wise. Biden should have stayed more neutral positioning the US as a broker rather than as an advocate. Biden should have campaigned from almost day one of his term acting as if he was running for governor or senator of the Rust Belt states and the Southwest with a focus on local issues that would get minority voters to the polls in 2024. There should have been an heir apparent on the ground with him who was not Harris. Dems lost the moderates and conservatives in 2024 who they had won in 2020. They bet on Dobbs wrongly believing that this would provide net gains when it was practically guaranteed to produce net losses which it did. To the extent that many of the real and perceived failings of his administration may have been exacerbated by his inability to communicate and his diminished bandwidth maybe. He may have had a fundamentally different ability to communicate on or react to inflation more than the economys great! earlier in his presidency. A younger Biden might have been more attuned to political winds on issues that mobilized the Democratic base earlier. Theres some reporting that would choose a couple issues to engage on to a much larger degree than others Ukraine for instance. Who knows what would have happened if he had been more handson delegated less and was broadly a more effective communicator for the entirety of his four years. If were supposing that he was younger but the state of the country track record and relative lack of quantity of direct communication were the same then no. Hed still lose. Probably not. Too many Americans enjoy fantacising.. the character that accepts and promotes fantasy wins. Only if Biden is painted as someone successfully deflecting multiple existential crises America is facing. Not just defending democracy. But climate change Putin a rising China etc. Only if Biden points out that the Democrats are always cleaning up the Republicans economic messes and that economic recovery is always slower in the first Democratic term than the second to explain inflation. Only if Biden takes the stance of promising to make sure Israel is made to follow international law in Gaza. Which in no way is an antiZionist statement. It’s the most neutral stance one could take in regards to Gaza. Only if his team hides Biden from the public like they did in 2020 to not highlight his cognitive decline. Thereby only allowing Trump’s problems to be highlighted. If all those things happen Biden might have stood a chance. None of that was happening though months before he dropped out. Resulting in him polling underwater in even safe blue states. I have no idea if his team could turn it around considering they thought a June debate was a good idea and they were running Harris’s campaign. And they could visibly seen the cognitive decline on a day to day basis for years and did not adapt. Biden might have been far better off not having the debate so early even if he was eager for an early debate. A poor debate performance closer to the election date allows for it to be forgotten by other news items in the campaign cycle. I think so. If Biden was in his 50s and could sell his message of tackling inflation expanding jobs lowering child poverty attacking corporate oligopoly supporting unions building immigration systems to deter illegal immigration and support legal entry acknowledge need for change in college costs and other topics I think he could have swung a couple percentage points. The Mexican presidency was won by someone selling this left leaning policies. It is reasonable to be inspired by that government to tackle the issues of the day. Now a few more percentage points are lost because we went to a minority woman candidate from a white man. 22% of Americans think we would be less resepected on the global stage if we had a woman president from a pew research poll in July 2023 . So combining the votes lost to Bidens messaging and votes lost to sexism I think Biden would have had a good chance at winning. no. his age was a problem but his biggest problem was the economy and the cost of every day goods such as eggs under his watch plus a disastrous foreign policy record to the point people took notice. add in how massive of a problem illegal immigration became under his watch something were still dealing with the after effect of today. look at the recent colorado murderer who came in illegally under bidens presidency and its pretty clear he had a lot more working against him than just his age. No telling. We now know he was essentially a puppet. If he was of sound mind during his presidency it may have been a lot different. Biggest example being the horribly botched Afghanistan withdraw. It that was not botched so horribly massive weakness would not have been projected and Putin may not have invaded Ukraine. I think he would have struggled even if he werent barely getting through his duties. His lack of action on Gaza and capitulation to Israel wouldve still pissed off a lot of his 2020 voters his inability to get Trump in prison wouldve pissed off even more and despite some solid infrastructure and domestic policies it doesnt feel like hes moved the needle much. Biden kinda sleepwalked through 2020 election as a middling candidate thanks to Trumps incompetence with COVID. Hard to say. Voters generally lack the desire to take a critical view of candidates. It devolves into tribalism where the candidates fight for the undecided and single issue voters. For example both Biden and Trump share the blame for inflation. Bidens immigration policy was an anchor on his campaign. If he forced immigrants to remain in Mexico until their hearing he probably would have won. Every election whether fair or not is always about the economy. Presidents don’t even control the economy but that’s how they’re graded. In the end we didn’t have a recession but we did have inflation. That alone was enough to seal the deal. It seems that the general consensus is that Biden would’ve lost either way. Another thought did Harris ultimately do better than Biden likely would have if his age wasn’t a problem? Age was not the issue. Cognitive Ability was the issue! His mental faculty was so poor and had been so poor for so long. Elected officials LIED to us! No absolutely not. In order for the dems to win an election they NEED the young vote. Young people spent the months before the election urging people not to vote and accusing the current admin of supporting genocide. Young liberals dont realize that a nonvote from them is a vote for the Republicans. They also think their vote doesnt matter. By the time they do realize their vote matters they have turned republican. A fully fit and halthy biden ran for president before and dropped out under humiliating circumstances. He was helped across the line by a compliant media class hiding his already apparent decline in 2020 thanks to the covid pandemic. I have no confidence any version of him could have won in 2024 The Democrats suffer because they have no grip on the psychology of people in the 2020s. They run in a way that appeals only to middle class educated urbanites and ignore how people are actually engaged with the political scene now. There are strong psychological and psychosocial reasons why Trump as a movement is appealing to young men for instance. It’s not new. It’s the exact same psychology that was studied and theorized to death following the collapse of fascism in the 20th century. But instead of learning from that and approaching the world as it exists they are beholden to an insider class of consultants staffers and campaign managers who have zero idea how people want a politician to behave. No his open border policies and rampant crime in our cities was too much to overcome. It was also the coverup on the part of the Democrats and more importantly the media. Post 42 Could a US Senator put together a vetoproof bill that could completely bypass Trump involving armor such as Bradleys F16s Patriot missiles/batteries etc for Ukraine? Curious of the nuances of this. I know Senator Graham is pushing a 500% sanctions bill on Russia in the next week. It sounds like it has the votes both senate AND house to pass. Does the senate have the power to put together a more potent bill than even the sanctions one that could completely bypass trump in the way of US weaponry to Ukraine? . This is a subreddit for genuine discussion * Please keep it civil. Report rulebreaking comments for moderator review. * Dont post low effort comments like joke threads memes slogans or links without context. * Help prevent this subreddit from becoming an echo chamber. Please dont downvote comments with which you disagree. Violators will be fed to the bear. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Any bill requires a majority of the House and a supermajority of the Senate to pass. That’s the way it always is. Could such be done to provide more mil assistance? Yes. But is it likely? Probably not with GOP majority in both chambers. With the three vacancies in the house you’d need 288 votes to override a presidential veto which would require at least 76 Republican defections against their own president. Unless there are at least 76 Republicans who are retiring this term I don’t see any chance the representatives in the house would openly defy Trump that directly. In theory sure in practice... it gets a bit more complicated. The issue is that the president is the final executor of that legislation by default and even if it passes Congress Trump can ensure that the goods are delayed and that massive amounts of red tape become involved to the point that it might be years prior to the resources being deployed. So the help will eventually reach Ukraine... well after it mattered. It’s theoretically possible but not going to happen in reality for a huge number of reasons most of which relate to the Ukrainians being unable to use things like F16s and not having a ton of use cases for IFVs like the Bradley. The need SHORAD more than anything else right now and as they’ve found Patriot can do it but it’s way overkill for the role. I don’t think Congress will find the strength to be on the hook for the possible escalation that could cause. I’d love for a Congress to step up and reclaim its power from the executive regarding war but I don’t think this will be it. The way to deal with trump is to get him on your side. Make him think you are going to be taking a kickback from the transfer of money and let him know that a portion will be sliding right to trumps meme coins or golf clubs. At this point he doesnt remember enough about if the bribes come in like paying his own debts. Do it close enough to right before and then he will remember he is supposed to let that one pass. The only true constant with trump is his corruption and ability to be bought. Until you get a bipartisan majority to impeach him the law doesn’t matter. He will ignore it tell his subordinates to ignore it then continue doing what he was already doing No because the second Trump even threatens to veto it almost every republican will drop their support. like is there there political among 67 senators? I dont think there is. Though with a rare earth mineral rights deal in place to recover money that was given to Ukaine maybe? I think its a no though. Could it be done? Yes. Will it? No. The American people are tired of funding a war in Ukraine. In that case the exact number of Bradleys F16s etc. needs to be specified in such a bill right? Otherwise it would be up to Trump or Hegseth to decide. PS Senator Graham is not to be trusted. He wont do anything against Trumps will. With the GOP having abandoned their historical positions and adopting Loyal To Trump LTT as a group the proposed legislation aiding Ukraine has no chance to be more than political theater. Until the Bloated Billionaire Bonanza Bill™ is either passed or tears apart the Republican party I see little chance for any reasonable legislation to be passed with enough votes to override a presidential veto. Now if the Bloated Billionaire Bonanza Bill™ is in fact the bridge too far moment for the Republicans the resulting chaos will likely cause the government to grind to a halt. Post 43 How would you add to Mt. Rushmore? Its been 84 years since Mt Rushmore was completed. Thats 21 terms. Are there any other presidents that you think would make good additions to the monument? Think of this as a political history exercise. Would any presidents since ww2 be good enough to match those 4? . This is a subreddit for genuine discussion * Please keep it civil. Report rulebreaking comments for moderator review. * Dont post low effort comments like joke threads memes slogans or links without context. * Help prevent this subreddit from becoming an echo chamber. Please dont downvote comments with which you disagree. Violators will be fed to the bear. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Even putting aside the First Nations aspect for a moment a Mount Rushmore wouldnt be created today. Thats no our society. It would be like deciding the Washington Monument needed to be taller and slapping another hundred feet on it it doesnt add anything and itd piss a bunch of people off Mount Rushmore can either remain as is Avoiding the question of native land and such the only one that I would go along with is FDR. So much of our modern state goes back to him. The huge WPA and CCC projects. Social security and other social programs. Along with his leadership in WW2. No other president can compare really. Ike maybe if you include his armed forces career. But that’s the only one I would add nothing. The territory is sacred to the First Nations people of the area and Id rather see the area turned over to them for them to do with what they please rather than further destroyed by chiseling some new presidents face on it. Theres only so much mountain facing. And it is very poor stone to work to begin with. Your post is BS. We dont deface historical monuments. Thats ISIS level shit so go away. Id give it back to the Native American groups that used to control the area and see whatever they want to do with it. The faces on Mt Rushmore are a desecration and should be removed. Its hard to convey just how insulting they are. Its somewhat like topping St. Peters or the Vatican with statues of Baal Bahomet or or pagan gods or erecting statues of Hitler Goebbels Heydrich and Goering in Piccadilly Square. There are only three who would make sense. FDR LBJ and Reagan. This is ignoring politics and other preferences. Those are the three that would make sense due to their impact on American society. Honestly its a competition between Reagan and FDR. LBJ is probably too problematic due to the Vietnam War. Of course in reality its moot. No one is going to seriously consider addition construction on Mount Rushmore. But those are the ones you can legitimately consider. No not really. It was barbaric that we blasted those presidents faces into that rock in the first place. We should give it back to the Native Americans who owned the land previously and let them do whatever they want to it. I love Mount Rushmore because it looks cool. Ive been there twice. Theres new stadium thing and the parking is much better now than when I went decades ago. But we cant ignore the reality that its stolen land and was created by a member of the KKK and it has become a MAGA pilgrimage because of his last administration and the 4th of July or something it was a while ago. I would probably not add to it. In an interview with 60 Minutes Nancy Pelosi said that Joe Biden should be on Mount Rushmore. She also said during the interview that she never noticed Joe Biden’s cognitive decline. The gaslighting of Dems continues. Ill go in a different direction and blast off Teddy Roosevelt from the thing. Few deserve that sort of monument to start and no one named Roosevelt meets the standard. Post 44 Politicians constantly use an abusive technique called DARVO to get out of responding to difficult questions. How can journalists better counteract this? I’ve been noticing a pattern that keeps repeating in politics and I wish more people especially journalists would call it out. It’s called DARVO Deny Attack Reverse Victim and Offender. Trump is probably the most obvious example but many others do it as well. It comes from the field of psychology and was originally used to describe how abusers avoid accountability. But once you know what it is you start seeing it everywhere in political communication. A politician is questioned and instead of addressing the question/concern they deny it outright go on the offensive against whoever raised the concernthat’s a nasty question you’re a terrible reporter etc and then claim to be the victim of a smear campaign or witch hunt. It confuses the narrative and rallies their base. This tactic is effective because it flips the power dynamic. Suddenly the person or institution raising concerns becomes the villain and the accused becomes the aggrieved party. It shortcircuits accountability and erodes trust in journalism oversight and public institutions. How can journalists counteract this tactic? A couple ideas Educate the public This pattern — denying wrongdoing attacking critics and portraying oneself as the victim — is known as DARVO a common manipulation strategy first identified in abuse dynamics.” Follow up immediately. When a politician avoids a question by shifting blame journalists should persist But what about the original allegation?” or You’ve criticized the accuser — do you acknowledge any wrongdoing on your part?” What do you all think? . This is a subreddit for genuine discussion * Please keep it civil. Report rulebreaking comments for moderator review. * Dont post low effort comments like joke threads memes slogans or links without context. * Help prevent this subreddit from becoming an echo chamber. Please dont downvote comments with which you disagree. Violators will be fed to the bear. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Journalists will not get another interview if theyre too combative and politicians dont need journalists as much as they used to to get their message out. That situation has led to interviews becoming really really milque toast affairs nowadays and a waste of time IMHO. Ill be honest though journalists will play just as dirty to make a buck. A prime example is what Fox did in connection with the voter fraud allegations in the 2020 vote. When they started losing viewers they switched to voter fraud and will use any expert or politician to tell that story. The only way to hold politicians accountable for engaging in these kinds of tactics and there are more then those is to not vote for them. It should be part of mandated civic courses to teach these kind of tactics to children in order to be more aware of this kind of behavior. Until we do this will not stop. The best tactic is to go into broken record mode. Youre not answering the question. I will ask it again. Then ask it again and dont stop asking. It should be treated as performance art. The manner in which the question is avoided *is* the answer. The goal should not be to get some kind of factual answer but to show how the answer is being dodged. Q&ampAs of politicians who are adept at handling media are not real Q&ampAs. A smart politician knows that answering questions is losing and learns how to manage the media. A smart journalist finds better ways to nail a subject who needs to be nailed. Offending journalists opponents etc. is part of a strongmans charisma that his paternalistic voters specifically admire. No education will change this. When a politician whose voters are mostly from the educated middle class does the same they lose votes. id argue that journalists in the moment at least have very little ability to address this. they dont have the time to argue when theres fifty of them crammed together around the interviewee who will move on to someone else less willing to push or ask challenging questions. longform 11 interviews are an option but the subject being interviewed doesnt have to schedule any and can just avoid them. investigative journalism would probably be the best route producing a long cited and dissecting piece about the person the DARVO method and how its been utilized. once that is out there soundbite news outlets and interviewers can ask for comment on it and let the interviewee either prove the point or legitimately respond. DARVO works extremely well. I went looking through Gabby Petito discussion threads on Reddit and most had a nonsubstantial amount of wow shes abusing Brain! comments. It wasnt until she killed that she was believed. DARVO also worked extremely well with Amber Heard. If they deny the headline is X denies Y or something. They will still be in the headline with the accusation which they are trying to avoid. If they attack focus on their behaviour what it implies about their guilt and how it shows they are losing control. Politician X attacks journalist in response to difficult question Politican Y panics when questioned about affair Z. If they try to play the victim stress how weak they are for doing so Politician X begs for mercy when questioned about affair Y. Politician X fears interview questions. Politician X is incapable of answering questions related to his job why is he still in office? I wish Journalists would just stop speaking to politicians. Just report on what they say. Dont waste time interacting with. If the Politician or press person is just going to lie and fight dont engage. Just report. I agree this is tactic makes journalists jobs more difficult. But journalists are not lacking power. Their power lies in writing and publishing stories. Coverage or noncoverage sets the agenda for political dialogue. Case in point Russiagate as an example of selective framing. Bidens age as an example of noncoverage. These two major news stories or non stories had immense political impact and journalists were controlling what the public saw or didnt see and how information was framed. I agree but I also think there is a responsibility on us to have different expectations of answers. Yes politicians deflect a TON and it annoys the shit out of me as well. But sometimes a politician will be asked the following kinds of questions 1 A complex question that needs a long answer in a setting like a debate where 2 minutes it not enough time to address is properly. 2 A good question but asked during a debate where the other side has slid in a number of bad points that have to be responded to the person has to basically try and choose a question to sacrifice the time of to instead respond to those prior points. 3 A question that is full of poison pills and to properly reply to it requires a long form discussion in which. Trying to answer those quickly and simply will do more damage than good. 4 A single politician cant know literally everything. But they arent allowed to be seen to not know the answer to something or not be able to formulate a good answer right on the spot. So they have to ramble or evade. These questions basically force even good and earnest politicians into giving evasive answers. We as the public should hold ourselves to better standards 1 Getting our messaging from Politicians primarily through long form content allowing them to give policy speeches or write policy essay that take the time to lay out their ideas in a well constructed way with a reasonable expectation that people will have read them. 2 Allow for debates that both are more closely moderated for staying on point but also allow for longer form sections that can give breathing room to more complicated topics. 3 Be educated enough on the main topics so that answers dont all have to be remedial in nature allowing politicians to get into the nitty gritty in their two minutes confident that the average listener already has a good baseline understanding of the topic. 4 We willing to accept if a politician says That is too long or complex to get into here or I will have to take that question away and come back and to then actually watch for their follow up statement or position paper and read it. 5 Be willing to accept that some questions have hard to unpleasant answers. If we can do that as the public then the good politicians will be freed up from a lot of the chains that compel them to still twist and avoid. If we cant do that then our own unreasonable standards will force those who are essentially trying to win a popularity context to act unreasonably in order to meet the standards. But yeah also a lot of politicians are just weasels who will twist and avoid cause they are sleazy. Im talking about those who would be much better if they didnt feel their hands were tied. If the journalist would agree to unite against this behavior and agree that the next reporter will point out that the original question was avoided by blaming the person asking the question then immediately ask the same question and demand the question be answered directly this time and repeat until the question is answered or everyone watching gets the message that he isnt going to answer basic legitimate questions. This allows the avoidance of questions the story lead by every agency instead of the study being how the president in this case destroyed another reporter Want to combat it? So youre too stupid to answer the question? So youre too weak to answer the question? I guarantee this doesnt just get through the wool they try to pull over everyones eyes it burns it to ashes DARVO.... Is simply Gaslighting. Journalists need to review facts and accuse politicians of gaslighting Interviews have become just as useless as our so called debates. Journalists should just report what they hear/observe and let the candidates worry about challenging it. Here’s the problem. How does DARVO differ for a person who is lying vs a person who is simply defending themselves from an untruthful attack. There’s an old saying A lie can travel halfway around the world while the truth is still putting on its shoes” There’s a reason people go on the offensive against false accusations. Unless you provide an alternative narrative the lie will simply continue even if it’s denied and proven wrong. The only solution is to have proof that can’t be denied. Take a guess at how many journalists ask questions like that instead of editorial nonsense. I want to know how colleges and universities are avoiding diplomas the journalist who don’t have this basic understanding and skill set. Its not gonna change any time . Journalists are not going to risk their neck to ask dangerous questions because they might get canceled and ruin their career Politician says some bullshit reporter responds with so you agree with what I just said then? The politician will say no they dont agree and state some bs talking point. Reporter then will reply by stating that since what they said was not true the politician must agree with the premise proposed by the reporter. Tell me something have you ever seen a politician answer a yes or no question? Probably the only thing a journalist can do is to try to follow up repeat the question and then if the politician still wont answer it then finish the interview with the statement that the politician elected not to answer the question. Maybe point out that the politician has refused to answer the question multiple times over several interviews if that is the case and then finish with the statement that the politician obviously has something to hide. This is an old tactic used by malignant narcissists trying to get the best of victims in abusive relationships. It has now been expanded to the world of politics and Trump and his minions are trying to get a grasp of it. Theyre predictable though. Thirtythree years working with criminals shows you a lot. Americans are the most compliant population on the planet. Millions of guns and a revolutionary history and a congressperson can say to their faces well die if you cant afford food peasant and theyll just frown a bit Others here have alluded to these tactics but what were really addressing is the decades perhaps centuriesold maneuver of deny and redirect or deny deflect redirect. Usually used by governments and corporations when theyre faced with damning evidence of misbehavior theyve become textbook responses for public affairs officials and politicians. All the more powerful as we try to finetune barometers to distinguish fact from fiction. All true but Trumps specialty is *preemptive* DARVO. Before undertaking anything he anticipates criticism and accuses critics of the same misbehavior in advance. Journalists need to stop thinking that neutrality” is objectivism. We don’t need to hear both sides when one side is clearly based in some alternate reality. So I guess my opinion is that journalists need to at least pretend to know a little something about what they are asking and not just ask questions” This should apply to politicians of either party. I dont think its so much a strategy as a natural consequence of the belief that me and my side are presumptively right and your side is presumptively wrong. If you want to avoid introspection and serious consideration about whether youre right or not the only option you have is to flip the script and blame the other side. I really doubt that theyre employing DARVO as a conscious deliberate strategy. Its just that very few people especially in politics but in other areas of life too wants to say we could have done that better. So if youre unwilling to criticize or even scrutinize your team the only option is to attack the other team. The solution if there is one would be way more fundamental than journalists talking about it. The people reading the journalism are still subject to the exact same biases that result in DARVO and theyre just going to DARVO the DARVO advisory. My team isnt using DARVO its yours whos using DARVO! The wheels continue to spin in the mud. People in general just need to be healthier. Im not sure how to fix that but its definitely not something journalists can accomplish. Back when journalists had the monopoly on access to information they could afford to do that now it’s a marketplace with no morality or ethics and they cannot afford to lose access to those that provide the information. Watch British journalists. They tend to be much better at dealing w this. Basically just keep pushing. Are you going to continue to blame me the constituent you represent or are you going to do your job and represent my concerns ? We think its the Republicans that are cracking and falling apart. Democrats are on the same support structure and failing just as quickly. Post 45 The Portuguese rightwing party finished in this Wednesday in second place in this elections making history. What do you think about it? Author Royal_Papaya8694Post Text Since 1974 after the fall of the dictatorship and the beginning of democracy in Portugal only two major parties have alternated in power PS – the Socialist Party and PSD – the Social Democratic Party . This political dominance lasted for decades and shaped the country’s postrevolution history. For the first time this bipartisan system has been broken. CHEGA a rightwing populist party founded in 2019 by André Ventura made history by coming in second place in the latest legislative elections. This is a significant shift in Portuguese politics. CHEGA gained rapid support with its strong positions on immigration law and order anticorruption and a push for deep reforms in the political and judicial system. In just a few years it went from a marginal force to becoming the main opposition party. This post was translated by an AI because my english is not good enough to write such an long text What do you think about it? Make sure to translate this website . This is a subreddit for genuine discussion * Please keep it civil. Report rulebreaking comments for moderator review. * Dont post low effort comments like joke threads memes slogans or links without context. * Help prevent this subreddit from becoming an echo chamber. Please dont downvote comments with which you disagree. Violators will be fed to the bear. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* It seems far right parties keep managing to make it to 2nd place in every multiparty system. Germanys AFD recently got to 2nd place too. So that either means we are at the tipping point before they manage to sweep into power or they recede. Could go either way. Probably will be a mixed bag of countries that slide right and those that dont. Echoes the rest of Europe which is headed in the same direction. Germany Italy France Spain the Netherlands and soon the UK. The reasons for their rise might not just be economic discontent but also cultural and existential anxiety. Rightwing populist parties often offer simple solutions to complex problems and that tends to appeal to the masses who dont think too closely about them. But thats the nature of populism to exploit peoples emotions to gain access to power Its always a multi faceted issue. The rise of Chega has a lot to do with the rise of Right Wing content on social media including pages that seem to be specialized in fear mongering immigration with posting daily anti immigration posts especially during election season which comes in a time when Portugal is indeed receiving a lot o immigrants for the first time with the exception of the 90s eastern european immigrants. The traditional media in Portugal isnt far right but since Ventura first got elected he has consistently been getting a lot more attention then his rivals. Now pair this up with desinformation like the idea that Portugal one of the safest countries in the world is somehow in a crime wave and theres the perfect storm. For the socialist party they have always been a center left party and since the 90s a neoliberal one however the name combined with political literacy helped to spread the notion that their policies are far left socialism that must be toppled by a right wing alternative. Edit for a longer and more complete answer for those that want a more in depth understanding of the portuguese political situation For a long time it was thought that Portugal was almost immune to the far right the previous far right attempts had all failed. On the one hand portugal had small and generally well integrated immigrant population and strong antisystem left parties that soaked up the protest vote the communist party in the country side and poor areas and the left block in the city and middle class. Now a couple of things happened the finatial crysis led to austerity under the center right Social Democratic Party coservitive liberal in reality. When election came up in 2015 the divided socialist party came in second and conceeded defeat however there was a left wing majority in parliament and the communist party announced that they could unite to elect a socialist government altough neither them or the left block wanted to be in government. Effectively this meant 6 years on stable goverment but meant that the communist and left block lost much of there antisystem appeal. It became worse when the socialist party gained absolute mjority much thanks to them threatening that a Social Democratic Party victory would lead Chega to government. However their solo goverment was riddled with corruption scandls at one point they ahd more resignations then month in power. Eventually António Costa prime minister was accused by the general prosecutor of possible corruption never substanciated and quit leding to elections with the socialist party under heavy corruption suspicions. Regarding immigration Portugal traditionally doesnt receive much immigration however during the Crysis and the years after around 1 million working age people left the country. This was fine while the economy was declining but whent the economy started to grow there was urgent need of workers. The socialist party decided to facilited immigration to help fille the needs of the job market. Around the same time the border police SEF murdered a Ukranian migrant while on custidy and as an answer to the scandal government ended the border police and replaced it with an admnistrative agency AIMA that naturally took a while to get set up meaning there was very little control over borders to the point that often not even the criminal records were checked. Now has this lead to a rise in crime? Not really portugal is still one of the safest countries in the worls but certanily some aereas have now a lot more immigrants which has created disconfort around some people and helped to propaged xenophobic notions. Rightwing populism ebbs and flows in popularity. It seems to be making a comeback. It is typically driven by some resistance to social change and fears of instability which lead to the populists blaming foreigners and an allegedly corrupt elite establishment for what upsets them. This is often more cultural than economic. However the voters at the margins who hand them their most recent gains may be more motivated by economics than is the case with the stalwarts. I dont know the specifics in Portugal so I dont know if that accurately describes their situation. The answer generally is to have some charismatic leaders somewhere to their left who listen rather than scold so that they feel that they are being heard and the populists elites / conspiracy angle can be weakened. That wont end their movements entirely but it may reduce them in size enough that they no longer pose a political threat. Right wing economic policies arent getting more popular. Its pretty much just immigration. If a lefty or center party proposed anything reasonable on immigration the right wing parties would be gone immediately. Is the getting his seat back? This sort of thing happens all the time in democracies. One side of the political ledger will hold sway for decades before the other does. In the United States Congress was largely held by the Democratic Party from the 1930s to the 1990s aside from a few very brief interludes. The PRI in Mexico held sway for decades after the Mexican Revolution ended. Same with the LDP in Japan which has held almost continuous power since 1955. The Christian Democrats in Germany also held power for a long time under Merkel. This also even happens in countries that wobble between democracy and authoritarianism. This is a pattern seen repeatedly across Latin America. Where left wing and right wing governments basically trade power usually through coups or popular uprisings. Venezuela actually had a pact between the left and right political parties during a large chunk of the 20th century that involved swapping control of the government between them. In some sense it is expected that after the right wing dictatorship is deposed and the liberal and left wing parties formed a new paradigm things would shift back to the right. But I don’t know much about domestic Portuguese politics so I can’t say anything about how bad or foreboding this might be. The world politics is leaning towards right you name it USA France India and many more just look around the right is in rise and why is so? Because everyone have saw the centralist and left leaning but capitalist type of government destroying the people the government infecting the system turning everything global erasing border and the cultural identity we can see the emergence of new and problematic culture on the cost of the old and preserved cultures and ethnics it wont be surprising if the entire world turn right and in Europe what I believe is the rise or right is because of the chaos the left have let the immigrants make and normalizing it. Its the immigration of these aliens and there chaos which give rise to right leaning ideology and its good real good keeping your place clean I support the right of the Portuguese to exclusive control over their country including deciding whos allowed to visit. And they have every right to limit antisocial behavior in their own country. Beyond that I dont care because its their choice not mine. Post 46 What are the limits on the complexity democratic voting systems? Democracy in practice seems to range from simpler systems such as firstpastthepost representation through increasingly complicated systems like ranked ballots to proportional representation to mixed systems with combinations of systems. Does the latter represent the outside envelope of what a society can reasonably tolerate or are more complex systems supportable sociologically? Obviously Im sorely lacking in political science background so apologies if this is answered in some obvious body of knowledge. . This is a subreddit for genuine discussion * Please keep it civil. Report rulebreaking comments for moderator review. * Dont post low effort comments like joke threads memes slogans or links without context. * Help prevent this subreddit from becoming an echo chamber. Please dont downvote comments with which you disagree. Violators will be fed to the bear. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* a PR etc. are not complicated. b If you want complicated look at Venice in the 12th century https//en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Doge_of_Venice#Selection_of_the_doge After 1172 the election of the doge was entrusted to a committee of forty who were chosen by four men selected from the Great Council of Venice which was itself nominated annually by twelve persons. After a deadlocked tie at the election of 1229 the number of electors was increased from forty to fortyone. New regulations for the elections of the doge introduced in 1268 remained in force until the end of the republic in 1797. Their intention was to minimize the influence of individual great families and this was effected by a complex electoral machinery. Thirty members of the Great Council chosen by lot were reduced by lot to nine the nine chose forty and the forty were reduced by lot to twelve who chose twentyfive. The twentyfive were reduced by lot to nine and the nine elected fortyfive. These fortyfive were once more reduced by lot to eleven and the eleven finally chose the fortyone who elected the doge. Election required at least twentyfive votes out of fortyone nine votes out of eleven or twelve or seven votes out of nine electors. There isnt really a significant difference in effort when voting in a ranked/proportional election compared to a firstpastthepost election. For voters it boils down to whether you have to make a single preference or multiple preferences on your ballot which isnt exactly an onerous burden. Many countries also dont require you to use all your available votes/preferences. You can get proportional systems such as a closedlist party vote which only require a single voting preference but produce proportional seat outcomes. And conversely system like instantrunoff voting where voters have to rank preferences but where the overall number of seats in a legislature isnt necessarily proportional. And more rarely there are some states/polities that employ some element of direct democracy where all citizens play a direct role in shaping and voting on individual policy decisions. This can take the form of infrequent referendums but in places like Switzerland you get both a high number of national referendums and the option to directly participate in local assemblies. Each democracy has slightly different levels of citizen involvement/responsibility and fairness in translating votes to seats. So much of this is subjective that its difficult to say which if any are better systems but you could then look at outcomes such as turnout social inequality citizen happiness etc. You can always make more complex system by creating stupid rules like many countries do to keep political control. If you are looking for system that could not be simplified without loosing fairness proportionnelle representation is very simply and the most fair you can do for parliament. Same for ranked voting for presidents. Obviously you could say that each person could have different voting power that the votes need to be made for 17 different intermediate electors and add always more complex system. Most of the time it is done to shift power from people to a minority that are more likely to vote for conservative moderate and status quo As a current political science student https//en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Duverger%27s_law Essentially a first past the post system tends to create two moderate parties. A proportional representation system creates multiple parties with more extreme political opinions represented. The caveat is that one party by itself will rarely have enough seats to run the government by itself and must form coalitions. At the end of the day assuming the system is working correctly you still get a government that represents the mean political opinions of citizens. Theres good and bad for any method but the main difference is where compromise takes place. First past the post generally forces the candidates themselves to compromise while proportional representation makes the parties compromise. Federalism on the other hand is a very difficult and complex system. The United States doesnt even recommend other nations establishing democracy follow our model. But the complexity is sometimes the only way to ensure representation in a country as geographically and culturally diverse as the US. Closest would possibly be the EU but you can see some of the struggles theyve had between individual sovereignty and the greater good. Digital technology is moving us towards a place where nothing else will work except open direct democracy. Go to my profile visit the website listed there download my book on the topic for free. Post 47 If Hillary Clinton or Kamala Harris had gone with a female running mate how would this have affected the general election outcome? Clinton considered Elizabeth Warren. Harris considered Gretchen Whitmer. If they had gone with these picks or any some other woman how would this have affected the ticket in the general election? Would it have helped them in some way? Would it have hurt them further? Or would it have simply had no effect at all? . This is a subreddit for genuine discussion * Please keep it civil. Report rulebreaking comments for moderator review. * Dont post low effort comments like joke threads memes slogans or links without context. * Help prevent this subreddit from becoming an echo chamber. Please dont downvote comments with which you disagree. Violators will be fed to the bear. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Running mates aren’t a big enough factor to change the outcome of elections these days. I don’t think that either one of their running mates being women would’ve done much to help them win. I dont think the problem was the running mate. The issue was fundamentally strategic. The Hillary campaign did not take Trump seriously and seemingly made decisions under the assumption that they would win. The Harris campaign was hamstrung for a lot of reasons not the least of which is that she was VP to a really unpopular President and therefore couldnt play the new sheriff in town without totally throwing him under the bus. So she had to awkwardly balance between supporting Bidens decisions and trying to argue that she was a force for change which is tough. You kind of have to either go with the existing policies were great but we need more time or it sucked and we need to pivot but you cant really do both simultaneously. There are other reasons of course. Lots of them actually. But I dont think it had anything to do with the choice of running mate. It was all strategic decisions that I dont think panned out very well. The bottom line is I dont think it was that Trump won its that the Democrats lost. Victory was certainly within reach if they did things differently. Voters tend to vote for the top of the ticket. A bad VP can hurt the ticket but a good one probably wont help. There is some research that suggests that a VP can help to win the VPs state. So Whitmer could have potentially helped to keep Michigan although doing that wouldnt have changed the election outcome. Harris and Clinton were both bad candidates and not because of their genders. Dems need to stop pointing fingers and examine their own failures to understand voter psychology. As a big tent party Dems need charismatic candidates who can build a bridge between the center centerleft and nonwhite social conservatives and both Harris and Clinton failed to do that. Dems need black voters to show up in force and many of them are churchgoers who will sit it out if the messaging is too secular for their tastes. Im pretty sure that the misogynistic vote outweighed the prowomen vote in every election that Trump has won. It would only have hurt them It wouldnt have made any difference whatsoever. Any additional appeal that a VP candidate brings to a presidential campaign is minimal at best. At the end of the day people vote for who they want to be president not vice president. Anything to attract attention to a running mate is good and i mean ANYTHING. Both Harris and Clinton dropped the ball with their running mates. Both Harris and Clinton treated their running mates like they were invisible which is unfortunate because even my Republican friends liked Tim Walz. Many said if he were running for president they would have voted Democrat. Quite honestly my perception is that most of the losing presidential candidates have treated their VPs as little more than trained monkeys. Making the running mate a woman only helps if that woman is perceived as active and included in the discussion rather than just a yesman/yeswoman. This isnt just a Democrat thing this is for almost all candidates. Many seem to be one man or woman shows. Harris did very little with Tim Walz even though he was someone REPUBLICANS LOOKED UP TO. Trump and Vance at least openly butted heads enough for it to be talked about showing that Vance wasnt just Trump with extra steps. Even if I didnt like Trump and Vance personally I knew who they were. Clinton had Tim Kaine. I didnt even know Tim Kaine was Clintons running mate until I saw it on my voting ballot. Biden and Harris had decently good synergy working together and they werent just empty space. Biden and Obama worked well together even when disagreeing on some points and as far as presidential candidacy goes those two were the freakin dream team. Biden had his own presence rather than just Obamas tagalong. I think there are way too many variables behind the 2016 election to say which effect they would have had. It was too much of a major watershed with still too little analysis to argue that one good change would have steered 2016 solidly in Clintons favor. But if there was a serious rigorous analysis of just what happened I doubt the selection of Tim Kaine would ever come up as even being in the top 10 reasons she lost. Im not saying he was a good running mate just that he certainly had very little impact on the final result. Would Warren have given Clinton a boost? If the argument is that Hillary Clinton lost for pivoting back towards Bills neoliberal policies than maybe Warren could have been seen a decent progressive counterbalance. But Im not convinced that would have translated to holding the Blue Wall. Harris is a different story. Less complex and more of a monthslong series of own goals. A different running mate would simply not change the fact that the Harris campaign was just a disaster from start to finish. the Clinton campaign had its share of mistakes but the Harris team made the Clinton team look like the Obama 08 team. Democrats need to stop thinking that running a woman candidate will win over right leaning women voters. It won’t. Would’ve changed not much I reckon. US Americans just don’t want a female president. They won’t really care about the VP’s gender This argument presumes that in the former premise a more progressive VP pick would drive turnout. For victory While the latter premise presumes that a pick from a rust belt swing state would drive turnout to at least hold one of those three rust belt swing states while not guaranteeing a victory. Both premises suggest that there was a voting bloc that was not appealed to that could have tipped the election the other way. And that both could have made riskier VP choices instead of safe VP choices that were actually made. This argument ignores the importance of the presidential candidate being an appealing candidate to the working class both in policy and in appearances through photo ops and having a foreign policy that is not hawkish both areas where Trump succeeded to both campaigns. It ignores that both presidential candidates campaigned in the middle of an economy that voters are not impressed with despite media was claiming was great. And that both candidates were following up an incumbent administration they were once apart of that voters seemed to be mentally done with overall despite liking or respecting the incumbent president. Which puts them at a disadvantage going in. It ignores that both presidential candidates pandered to the neocon right wing over their own Democratic base let alone the progressive wing. Despite major neocon figures falling in line and endorsing Trump weeks prior to election day even after Trump insults them. And all of the above factors combined gave a permission structure to many voters to ignore the fearmongering and either a go crazy and vote for the other guy or b to sit the election out. The loss is more embarrassing for Harris and her team because they had 8 years to learn from the mistakes Clinton and her team made and learned absolutely nothing. And that Obama to Trump voters exist so they cannot play the racism card either as to why they lost. For Harris it depends on the woman. I dont personally think anyone could save the campaign. But it is possible. Nothing and no one would have saved Clinton. She is polarizing in the 90s and had 20 years of support and 20 years of vitriol to contend with. I dont think it wouldve mattered. I was pleasantly surprised but surprised nonetheless that Biden won in 2020 with Harris as his running mate. Everybody knew that they were voting for a strong possibility of a female president via succession and that didnt turn enough voters to Trump. For that reason I think an allfemale ticket would perform about the same as a female president/male vice president ticket. Unfortunately I think much of the voting populace pays a lot of attention when the presidential nominee is a woman and thats why Harris lost and lost badly in 2024 despite her being on the winning ticket in 2020. I dont have any direct evidence but my gut is telling me that both Biden and Trump showing their age at times in the White House will cause voters to pay a lot more attention to the VP nominee from now on and a ticket with a female VP may lose because of her gender. It disgusts me to say this but a lot of people women included dont want a woman anywhere near the presidency. They would have lost. I do think Clinton going with Booker would have been interesting. He was new exciting and dynamic. I know she was concerned with being overshadowed but those strengths might have really helped her. Harris should have gone with Shapiro. She needed to go after votes from specific states. while feminist would say this is not fair and to be fair in this one instance their sort of right they would have lost worse if they did because even i would have thought of it as being sort of a attack on my gender because to pick a woman just seems like a rejection of men and a insult to them anf again like i said not the best logic but it does. They would’ve done the same or worse. Some people can’t stomach the idea of electing a woman to the highest offices in the country let alone two of them. Im still baffled by how many people think Kamala lost due to gender race or not messaging quite right. She lost on policy. If her VP pick was a former border patrol or ICE agent MAYBE that would have tipped the scales her problem was that the unpopular Biden policies are ones she was not only anchored to but policies she clearly supported. Sudo open borders and trans women in girls sports. She might have won if she came out hard against one of those two but like throw biden under the bus hard. Had she said Biden didnt allow her to close the border like she really wanted I think she would have won enough just enough voters to win. Had she actually done her job as Border Czar I think we would be 4 months into Her presidency right now. But okay question posed would a female running mate had made a difference? absolutely not. Running mates dont factor in that much. Though to be fair they can maybe cost you some votes I cant see a running mate really winning you votes. and tampon Tim was not helping to win over centrists swing voters and moderates. Probably depends on the female running mate and on how the nominee interacted with her running mate. A ClintonWarren ticket could be interesting if it meant Clinton ran on some of the policies of the Warren antimonopoly agenda though I’d suspect that the more likely scenario would be that Warren would be heavily muzzled the same way Harris’s campaign did for Tim Walz towards the second half of the campaign. A HarrisWhitmer ticket honestly just has immense fake personality” vibes written all over it with little in the way of redeeming believable policy and given this archetype is Trump’s specialty to go against there might have been an even bigger loss in that hypothetical timeline. I firmly believe that America absolutely would be willing to elect a female president and vice president Clinton did win the popular vote even despite her high disapproval polling and we already had our first female vp in Harris. But the problem is that we still have such a relatively shallow pool to choose from with female governors and senators and other high offices. And of those who do exist most of them are a little too cozy with the corporate world though AOC and her group are finally starting the processing of helping more women with backbone get into power. Basically we are still seeing the effects of past heavy misogyny alongside the current comparatively milder misogyny so the deck is really stacked against having a woman president in the near future. did not vote for trump the last time because it had become obvious to me by the time he ran against biden he is basically just a fascist and if they had the election again i would still vote for the woman but i will say it would seem insulting for whatever reason even to me to run two women because it comes across as a rejection of men and that is likely not logical but it would. Post 48 If affordable housing becomes reality nationwide how do we not overcrowd the desirable areas while the less desirable areas empty out? Affordable housing is something that needs to happen because we cant thrive if we are either a nation of renters or a nation full of house mortgages. But if this actually comes to fruition and we get affordable housing how will the prices be enacted? How will we prevent everyone from wanting a beach house in California or Hawaii? How will boring places like Kansas and Mississippi remain populated if a waterfront estate in Monterey is just as affordable? Who gets priority as to who goes where who gets the house by the beach and who has to live among the corn fields? While we need affordable housing we cant have everyone take over some states and leave other states to decay as the population moves out. . This is a subreddit for genuine discussion * Please keep it civil. Report rulebreaking comments for moderator review. * Dont post low effort comments like joke threads memes slogans or links without context. * Help prevent this subreddit from becoming an echo chamber. Please dont downvote comments with which you disagree. Violators will be fed to the bear. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Im not sure affordable housing means building beach front property and then letting people live there for pennies? It took me years to finally get into affordable housing and I can tell you that it will never ever become a reality. Not locally not nationwide. Real estate is just too valuable. If there is such a thing as affordable housing odds are people are not going to move just because they think the grass is greener in a nicer city. The law of supply and demand applies to everything low income housing included. Once the desirable areas become overcrowded people will start migrating to the undesirable areas. Its happened in plenty of metropolitan areas where people packed up and moved out of larger cities. we cant thrive if we are either a nation of renters or a nation full of house mortgages Why? What do you mean by affordable housing” exactly? Because beach houses in Ca or Hi will never be affordable. There will always be luxury housing in premium locations so you should ignore those completely. What we need is more housing in general specifically high density housing like apartment towers. Most people will not own homes in places like LA because there isn’t enough space but reasonably priced apartments is an obtainable goal. OP you have a long way to go before you actually understand the concept of supply/demand or even what affordable housing even means. Thats just going to happen. Certain industries will only build around college towns to immediately recruit graduates. People will move there because thats where the jobs are. Not just the jobs that are recruiting graduates but all of the businesses in the area that support that business. Whether or not there is affordable housing people will move to where they can make enough money to still feed and cloth themselves. This question demonstrates a fundamental misunderstanding of how housing costs work. The overcrowding of desirable areas is why housing is expensive in those place. Its a matter of supply and demand. Affordable housing does exist its in places fewer people are interested in living. They tend to be rural areas urban areas with lower paying jobs and high crime and the houses are in disrepair How will we prevent everyone from wanting a beach house in California or Hawaii? You dont say it but your question implies that if we added more housing across the US it would all be one uniform price. But the rules of supply and demand would still apply. Lets say we pass a federal law that every state must increase housing by 20%. Like you mentioned the gut reaction by many might be hell yeah I can finally move to the coast or a major city beach etc.! But even with 20% more housing that shack in SF that is currently $800k would still probably be $650k. An average person wont pay even $650k for a shack in SF when a similar home in their current town is $200250k and would be even lower with 20% more housing stock. And if 20% more people decided to move to SF that shack would simply stay at $800k. IMHO affordable housing in the most desirable areas would likely be in the form of high rises with studio apartments that would feel like a college dorm to most of us and they would still be considered expensive. And if you had a program that gave affordable home mortgages to important but low paying occupations like teachers they would eventually sell for a massive profit as soon as the waiting period ended. We’d be better off taxing second third fourth etc properties at increasingly higher rates giving first time home buyers more leverage in the market So one thing we could do is make it so that most of the affordable housing in desirable places are condos or some type of multidwelling unit while the less desirable places would be more detached singlefamily homes. You want to live in the NYC area? Condo for you. But if youre willing to live West New York you can have a single family house. Affordable houses are not going to be built in those places. The goal is not to lower everyone’s home values. The goal is to have affordable minimalistic options available. Think more houses that are 1500 sqft or less. Not 2500 and up like what is currently the only thing being built. we get affordable housing how will the prices be enacted? You appear to be talking about a system where affordable housing is implemented through heavy government interference in the market with policies like rent control and subsidies for lowincome buyers. These policies could result in the type of problems you envision. The better way to encourage affordable housing is to let the market allocate housing based on people paying more for desirable homes in better locations. The problem is that we have artificially constrained supply while demand grows along with population and GDP. The market is fatally distorted by government policy and NIMBYs. Crowded cities are a good thing. If every city were as dense as New York or Chicago public transit would be viable in far more places. The environmental impact of dense cities is much lower than sprawling suburbs with big lawns and long commutes. We should make cities more affordable and much denser. That doesnt mean everyone has the right to live in a penthouse or next to a park but everyone with a fulltime job should be able to live in a safe wellmaintained apartment. **How to increase supply?** * Eliminate policies which make housing appealing as an investment rather than a consumer good. There are tax breaks for mortgages and taxes that are lower for real estate versus other types of assets like stocks for example. These should all be abolished starting with the mortgage income tax credit. * Eliminate or radically scale back zoning laws. Here in Seattle most of the land in the city was zoned for singlefamily homes making it difficult to build apartments in the most desirable neighborhoods. This is beginning to change though not nearly fast enough and it is already having a measurable effect on housing supply. * Shut down the NIMBY patrols. Residents who want to push back against density can easily kill new projects or make them much more expensive and timeconsuming. One way this happens is to find multiple frivolous complaints about a project and instead of filing one big lawsuit file ten lawsuits one at a time. Even if you lose every lawsuit you have effectively killed the project through delays and legal fees. * Reduce onerous regulation and permitting. In many localities the agencies which do permitting are funded by the amount they can charge for permits. This incentivizes strictness and complexity to ensure its almost impossible to comply without excessive permits and fees. * Create a guest worker program and make immigration easier. There is a shortage of around 600000 skilled tradespeople in the construction industry. Lots of recent immigrants legal and otherwise are involved in construction. We have to increase the labor supply if construction costs are to come down. These are just a few examples of marketfriendly ways to reduce housing costs. Do we have any real need for Kansas or Mississippi to remain as populated as they are? If the people who live there voluntarily choose to move somewhere else why would we and we includes them try to stop them? Affordable housing doesnt mean that everyone gets to live in a beach house. There isnt enough coastline for everyone to have a single family house on beachfront property. And not everyone is going to want to live in a city apartment either. But shouldnt the people who want to live in a city apartment have the option without going broke? OP hit the nail on the head. The USA DOES have affordable housing. The part people do not like is where that housing is now. It is not on the side of a river or ocean view. It is inner city. Most likely highrise housing that is poorly maintained. The question becomes How much are you willing to work to afford a home that you want to live in? The expression affordable housing is very misleading. It usually isnt affordable. Put affordable housing in less desirable area and connect them to desirable areas via high speed transportation. You want affordable housing? Change zoning laws so you can build a single family on a 4000 sf lot and a two family on a 5000 sf lot. If you require a minimum lot size of 12 acres like they do in Maine builders will only build luxury homes on such lots and young Maine families won’t be able to afford them. Instead rich people from Massachusetts will buy them. If you instead allow 23 family homes to be built again on small lots like Newark NJ rich people won’t want to live in such neighborhoods. Unfortunately very few 2 and 3 family homes are being built anywhere in the USA. Your definition of affordable housing isn’t the same as most people’s. Affordable housing to most people means they can afford the median home price in their city with a reasonable portion of the median income for that same city. Something like a small 3 bedroom house. It also might mean that a person on minimum wage can afford a basic 1bd apartment or half of a 2bd apartment at a reasonable portion of a 40hrs per week workweek. And if wage growth is 2% per year then to keep that affordability ratio static the home prices would also need to grow only roughly 2% per year. Affordable housing doesn’t mean we all get to live in mansion on the beach. It means that houses are relatively” affordable on normal wages and they stay that way over time. Effectively a person with Xth percentile income should be able to afford an Xth percentile quality house or thereabouts. make less desirable areas more desirable invest in infrastructure and build new neighborhoods and bring new jobs and places to work the hard truth is that were going to have to let the Market set the price &amp supply of housing. And that means that states that dont take positive action to increase their housing stock will see population declines &amp an increasing aged demo. Its a matter of choice for each states electorate on what they want their region to look like in 20 or 30 yrs. Some states like Colorado or Mass may opt to restrict growth so the workforce winds up being higherpaid knowledgebased in STEMrelated fields. Others like Tx or FL may want to attract a huge array of small businesses manufacturing as well as IT &amp professional/medical firms to expand key metros into cosmopolitan hubs that rival LA or NYC along with all the congestion &amp crime &amp homelessness. In the end your ideal of desirable will depend on your income &amp your locale. A Amazon warehouse worker making average income certainly wont find SoCal desirable if he/she can only afford to buy a 1bedroom condo. But Georgia may offer a much higher quality of lifestyle for the same job since that worker can now afford a 2bedroom single family home. In the US affordable housing is a term of art. It refers to income and rent restricted housing that is built with some combination of subsidies. There are limits on this and the limits are arguably much lower than they should be. But much of the new rental housing construction in the US involves affordable housing programs. There is not much of a crowding out problem in most locations given the limitations on the amount of development. As to the bigger picture issue what the US needs is more desirable cities and towns in order to reduce the demand on the highest demand cities. Expand the supply by creating more supply where it can be done so affordably. The US has a lot of blighted towns that have seen better days so there are areas that could be revitalized if a great deal of money was spent on improving such places with housing commercial districts good schools and policing so that people want to relocate there and do business there. But of course the US will never do this. Affordable housing and desirable areas not gonna be the same thing You build cheap houses where things are cheap Affordable housing can only happen in places where it is already affordable. You cannot have it both ways ideal location and be affordable since someone else will get the bill tax payer and eventually nobody can afford it. I like the idea of using Government land to build affordable communities where the cost of living is already low. It will require a type of citizen immigration from expensive places to affordable places if you want an affordable house. Affordable housing is not about a free ride in paradise but being able to afford a house even with modest means. This will also require effort by the future home owner sweat equity. The way I would do it is have the future residences build their own houses in affordable area to help lower labor costs and thereby build home equity based on your own actions. The idea is like an old fashion barn raising where the neighbors help each other. Everyone families can contribute in some way from baby sitting making meals carpenters landscapers laborers. Where ever you can help will be appreciated by the cause. It cannot be a free ride for lazy people or else everyone will get lazy and it will not happen in an affordable way. A large construction firm doing it while you wait is not affordable. This sweat equity approach builds a work ethic and allows small businesses to form in the future via the skills acquired and appreciated. The Government can supply expert trainers in all the crafts and the houses could even come partially assembled in factories. These would be other community jobs to help the cause and lower the cost and increase quality. After a community is constructed commercial property can come in for more housing and businesses construction. Now everyone there has the foundation for the American dream. We can and probably will thrive as a nation of renters. If I were 22 today I wouldnt consider buying at least not in my local market. Id rent for about half the cost of a mortgage on a comparable house and max out IRA and 401K contributions. In California at least its not a close call. Many seem to be avoiding answering the question but I think you are hitting on something I have discussed for a long time. There is far too much consolidation in our society. Many recognize the issues with corporate consolidation but I’m not sure many realize the issues of geographic consolidation. I do think it’s a problem that economic opportunity is so heavily concentrated in only a handful of metropolitan areas. So to answer your question we would need to ensure there is a way to either provide economic stability to people choosing to live in places with less economic opportunity or we would need to distribute that opportunity throughout the country. Personally I’m not sure people realize how much building and how many housing units would be needed to make homes in places like LA or Seattle affordable just through building alone. Bulldozed suburban subdivisions and shiny new Dutch or Japanese style developments are sadly not coming to you soon. We need to think beyond just cramming people into a few places. Beyond this we need to make sure that more places are desirable places to live. This could be done with a variety of means but I think cultural and lifestyle amenities plus jobs are very important to attracting young people. Efforts to support artists night life and public/third spaces should be heavily prioritized. Walkability and transit should be somewhat present. We also need to figure out how to more maturely deal with the FOMO culture that social media creates and which often overcrowds and overloads places that were nice at one point. Anyway the key here is that we need policies which help create economic sustainability across a broader base of America from which cities can work on creating a culture and identity to attract people. I think this is especially important for bigger cities in a region but also mid sized and even some smaller cities. Whatever the case this will require a lot of government spending and investment which is why many will say it will never happen. But I think we need to be at least a little hopeful. PS oh also regional transportation is a must. Post 49 How will the DNC resolve the ideological divide between liberals and progressives going forward? How is the DNC going to navigate the ideological divide between progressives and the standard liberal democrat and still be able to provide an electable candidate? Harris moved towards the center right in order to capture more of the liberal votes that clearly was not effective. Edit since there seems to be much question about My statement of Harris moving to the right here are some examples. Backing oil and gas production Seeking endorsements from anti Trump Republicans like Liz Chaney Increased criticism of proPalestinian protesters Promising to fix the border with restrictive immigration policies Backing away from trans rights issues . This is a subreddit for genuine discussion * Please keep it civil. Report rulebreaking comments for moderator review. * Dont post low effort comments like joke threads memes slogans or links without context. * Help prevent this subreddit from becoming an echo chamber. Please dont downvote comments with which you disagree. Violators will be fed to the bear. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* You are giving far more power and autonomy to the DNC than they actually have. The DNC is a fundraising organization it doesnt control messaging or internal coalition dynamics. There is no central control center of the Democratic Party its a bunch of ego driven people and little cliques running around like chickens with their heads cut off. This changes when the party has the presidency or is in a presidential election the president or nominee for president has a massive amount of control over the partys messaging. The DNC has zero influence over what presidential nominees say or do. The DNC couldnt have forced Harris to say shit. Examples Schumer completely screwed over House leadership but supporting the CR House Dems stuck their necks out to oppose. Pelosi spearheaded the charge against the people defending Biden after his disastrous debate last year. Amidst all the criticism of the left and how its killing the Democratic Party is the missing piece that the Democratic Party is stifling any move to the left. The DNC has no interest in solving the problem. They are the problem. I think with Harris there was more involved than just the Overton window. Im a fairly moderate boomer and would vote for pretty much anybody with a D after their name because the alternative is just isnt acceptable. A lot of Democrats are that way but not all. An estimated 13 million people will lose healthcare if Republicans pass the Big Beautiful Bill they are working on. Cuts to FEMA will make the home insurance crisis worse and rates will increase. The damage being done to the Dept of Education will force local govt to reduce programs/services. Annual deficits will double and service on our total debt will become the largest line item in the budget. People havent been happy with the status quo. Yet it will take a Herculean effort by future Administrations and Congress to get USAID FEMA Dept of Education HHS etc working again. Just to get them back to where they were a couple years ago. Nevermind making any progress. That is the marketing problem Democrats have. No one feels great about the status quo. Yet promising student debt relief M4A Abundance etc when we have a $23 Trillion annual deficit and our agencies are broken isnt reasonable. Going from a house on fire to a completed remodel that is better than before is a long way off. Step one is to put out the fire. Once out everything will still be burnt and damaged. Then we have to shut through and figure what can be saved and what whats gone. Then we repair and remodel. It is something that will take multiple Administrations. And that is a tough sell to a public that seems to think each Administration just gets to start over from scratch. They need to work on the misinformation campaigns that are being used to create wedge issue after wedge issue after wedge issue amongst the left. And people on the left need to realize this and stop falling for it hook line and sinker. And the ones who dont fall for it need to stop validating and legitimizing the wedge issues by not addressing them as wedge issues. What better way to keep the left ineffective when voting other than splitting it? If I were the far right Russia or anyone who wanted to see America fall what would I do in order to keep the left from ever getting close to the presidency ever again? I would split it. I would make sure that there are so many issues and infighting within the party that theyre too busy fighting amongst themselves than fighting the actual problem. And the fact that more people dont realize this is sickening. Its absolutely mindbogglingly sickening. And whats even more sickening is how the left A thinks that theyre above misinformation campaigns and propaganda and B tie their morality to their identity so closely and blatantly and mindlessly that all any propaganda has to do is to make people on the left believe that their stance is morally superior and that person will do believe and vote for/against anyone they nudge. I want to preface everything Im about to say with this Yes what Israel is doing is a genocide. I absolutely think its abhorrent and awful. I know that innocent people are being killed enmasse. Yes genocide is inexcusable and unforgivable. So in a discussion about Palestine the other day a person said this to me in a comment inexplicably saying the quiet part out loud when it comes to individuals who have been propagandized. Also notice that if you replace the one single word of genocide with murder/child murder its suddenly an antiabortion argument thats not a coincidence its by design. Ok two things. First of all were talking about a genocide. This isnt a thing we can politely disagree on or find a middleground on its a genocide. Im never going to compromise on that and Im never going to make common cause with people who will strenuous full throated opposition to genocide is a moral duty not a position which can be negotiated or softened. And my response was this Im struggling to find a response because what you just wrote is a textbook example of how propaganda is meant to work. You’ve basically said Here’s the emotional trigger that overrides my strategic thinking here’s how to manipulate me.” That is exactly the kind of psychological profile adversarial propaganda campaigns are designed to exploit. You’ve openly admitted that if an issue hits your moral threshold you will no longer engage strategically only emotionally. That’s not activism. That’s being an open target for manipulation. That is how powerful interests steer movements off cliffs by weaponizing your morality against your ability to think tactically in order to make actual progress on the issues you care about. And thats not opinions thats LITERALLY in propaganda playbooks. Its LITERALLY how MAGA got brainwashed just in the opposite direction and done so unilaterally instead of with the intent to divide. The divide isnt as big as the internet would leave you to believe. Liberals are not Republican lite and online leftists arent even the majority of progressives. The thing I do know is Expressing Dissent gave Trump a second term. Pure idiocy allowing this charlatan back in the Presidency. Now the US is disgraced with Trump and his merry band of clown car comrades. Harris lost because she was an unelected candidate appointed by acclimation by party leaders for no good reason. She lost brutally in the 2020 primaries because she was a bad candidate. She wasnt any better in 2024. They picked a loser to fight a loser. The fact that she unconvincingly shifted positions a few months before elections wasnt going to help even if she shifted to more popular stances. Harris should never have been the candidate. Her problem wasnt her positions it was her. Again people are conflating the DNC with just the Democratic Party at large. Resolving ideological divides within the party will be the job of the 2028 Presidential nominee. Poorly. In my experience liberal people have bad theory of mind for conservatives. They dont really get why they believe what they do. At most they can do condescending psychoanalysis theyre afraid of this theyre stupid about that. This leads them to make unforced errors again and again. Its dumb because they could find a lot of common ground if they learned how to talk and frankly how to listen. That.s not the DNCs job. The DNC is not a philosophy organization. Its not a think thank. Its a fundraising and campaign infrastructure organization. Stop thinking so fucking much about the DNC. The Divide will be settled by the actual candidates. The PEOPLE who run for office and not just in Washington. IN THE STATES. They wont. Theyre not a party theyre half a dozen miniparties stuffed into an oversized trench coat. Best they can hope for is that a charismatic centrist lets them ignore the divisions. **The nomination of Kamala as VP and then as Presidential nominee demonstrates a disconnect with reality so enormous that the mind boggles. Please stop conflating the DNC with the Democratic Party. The DNC isnt a central committee that dictates policy or strategy to anyone. The DNC has just 3 jobs. 1. Set the rules for Presidential Primaries 2. Run the convention every 4 years 3. Raise money for the Presidential nominees and state parties. Thats it! Your question is a good one for the party as a whole but there isnt any single entity that decides this stuff. Harris moved towards the center right in order to capture more of the liberal votes that clearly was not effective. Please put in more effort than this. In which ways did Harris move to the center right? Which policies specifically? Why was it clearly not effective? Simply because she lost the election or for some other unarticulated reason? Losing the election could have many causes and theres no clear single reason. You need to substantiate this with arguments. Harris moved towards the center right in order to capture more of the liberal votes that clearly was not effective. I am a conservative that voted for Harris last year. She did not make any meaningful move toward the right and certainly no move that I considered sincere or likely. She did nothing to earn my vote and nothing to solicit my vote. The DNC has a choice to make. They can pivot back to the center and closer to where the votes are or follow the progressives off a cliff. Those are the options and until the progressives begin to understand that its going to continue to be painful for them. They’ll insist they need to capture the disaffected Republican vote and move to the right of both those groups and blame progressives when they lose. You know? Same as usual. They’ll fuck it up. I can’t wait to see how and I can’t even fathom the ways they’ll manage to do it but it will blow my mind I’m sure. They’re incompetent beyond belief. If Schumer and Jeffries are any indication realize that no one is coming to save us. Schumer might be the only politician with a lower approval than Trump. By a factor of 2 btw Liberal voters need to learn to play politics. When you agree with a candidate on 70% of issues you don’t beat them up publicly over the 30% you disagree on. You praise them in public for the 70% and then use the party process primary voting local organizing town halls etc. to move the candidates on the 30%. Instead liberal voters will look at two candidates one who is 70% agreeable and one who is 10% agreeable and throw a damn hissy fit saying the two are the same. Case in point all the voters who said Harris and Trump were the same on IsraelPalestineGaza tragedy need to admit they were flat out wrong. Do you want to know why the Republican party has moved steadily further right every election? It is because there’s been a wellcoordinated persistent multi billion dollar effort at the state and local level to move the parties further right. The Tea Party movement endured many years of centrist and establishment candidates as it slowly took over the GOP from the inside. Liberals are the opposite. They are going to whine on the Internet but not do the hard work of organizing in local communities. How many safe districts are occupied by moderate establishment Democrats? Now ask yourself the question about safe Red districts how many of those are occupied by moderates rather than extremists? The GOP has moved farther right because the voters have shifted that way within Republican politics. There is no equivalent force on the Democratic side to move the party farther left because liberal voters have no actual governing power. Liberals have enough power to ruin a Democratic candidate chances to win in a general but not enough power to even win a Democratic primary in a deep blue district much less a statewide race. To answer your question directly the Democratic Party will move the way Dem primary voters push the party. The beautiful thing about American politics is that there is a vertical accountability every two years with congressional elections every four years in the presidential and most every year in state and local elections. Politicians are generally responsive to the voters however misguided those voters might be. If the Democratic Party electorate wants to move further left? Then the party will move further left. However if the primary voters once again choose a moderate centrist candidate? The question becomes what do the liberals do at that point. I would suggest reading the history of how Hitler came to power in Germany as progressive consider their options here. Splitting from the Democratic party to create their own faction is a surefire way to a GOP authoritarian state. I think theyll stay the course until the mid terms. Liberals fundamentally dont want sweeping changes and they will stick to that no matter what. Theyre relying right now on people feeling tricked by trump to give them back ground they lost at the mid terms. If that doesnt work they will pay lip service to progressive values at the next national election while governing the way they always do. TLDRThey wont do anything They’ll most likely do nothing significantly different then act surprised when they lose again. Ill change the question somewhat. How will the people in charge resolve these issues? Thats simple. Theyll continue on with DEI full force but theyll carve out an unprincipled exception for Israel. And theyll punish anyone that gets in the way until everyone backs down or is cowed. Yes theyll absolutely push the throttle all the way forward on immigration in an attempt to destroy European peoples once and for all. If they succeed in killing everyone theyll make a feast day out of it. Probably by holding elections about who will hold leadership positions and then having them make decisions about how to raise funds and then disperse them. I think that approximately 0.0% of the reason Harris lost is because she moved right. Most of those who refused to vote for her because she moved right had already opposed everything the Democratic party does for half a decade or more. Its worth remembering that the party didnt do what I want the party lost so if the party does what I want the party wins! is not really how things work. Your first mistake is in thinking theyll try to resolve it all or that they even want to. DNC is fully committed to their corporate masters and will never turn against the corporate donations. Theyd rather lose every election and fundraise off the public as the underdog. Harris moved towards the center right in order to capture more of the liberal votes that clearly was not effective. It did work. She barely lost the election. It is sounds ridiculous to say because it was a landslide loss but each of those states were small margins. She lost because progressives were never gonna vote for her and we should be cognizant of that. Progressives have always done this. They did it to Al Gore. They did it in the NYC ranked choice mayoral election where Eric Adams won something like 30% of wiley voters didnt even rank garcia. Progressives are still justifying not voting for Harris. We need to stop pretending that pandering to progressives works. Biden was the most progressive president since JFK and LBJ and he got shafted for it. He froze student loans for 4 years ffs lmao. First president to join a picket line. First president to even consider mass student loan forgiveness and he got some of it passed despite heavy opposition. First president to pass massive infrastructure for climate change. THE CHIPS ACT FFS. Heres a thought experiment. If you went out and surveyed regular people asking these questions what do you think most people would say? * Do you want to pay less in housing costs or more? * Do you want to pay less for healthcare or more? Do you want health insurance at all? * Do you want to pay less for university education or more? * Do you want to be paid more for your work or less? * Do you want more workers benefits PTO paid family leave etc. or fewer benefits? The answers to all these questions are obvious and nearly universal. The problem is the very framing of your question and the definitions you assign for labels like standard and progressive. On a fundamental level the vast majority of Americans are actually *radically* progressive in their desires and beliefs. They want substantially cheaper housing cheaper healthcare and cheaper education. They want much higher wages. They want much better working conditions/benefits. Full stop. There can be no denying this reality. The problem is of course that the DNC doesnt want these things. Most Democratic politicians stand in opposition to improving the material conditions of all voters on both the ostensible right and left. These politicians serve their true masters the rich and corporations. The real divide is between politicians and the people they claim to represent. I mean look at the Gaza war its not a war. A recent Pew survey has shown that a majority of *all* Americans 53% now hold an unfavorable opinion of Israel up from 42% in March 2022 before the Hamas attack . What has been the response of Chuck Schumer the supposed leader of the Democratic Party? More military aid for Netanyahus genocide. If Democratic politicians want to start winning again then maybe they should actually listen to what American voters actually want. Not what David Brooks or Jake Tapper think Americans want. What Americans actually want. With your examples for the shift to the center you already show your biases She never shifted right I don’t understand yalls obsession with Liz Cheney Fracking was largely limited to Pennsylvania and a transparent Pennsylvania play. She didn’t move to the center on trans. She didn’t move to the center with immigration The correct political play would to be to actually shift to the center and give up the ground the Republicans have given up But I’ve lost pretty much all faith that’s gonna happen they will do what they always do move right and chase the Rs deeper into fascist territory so as not to disrupt their donors There isnt a way to reconcile centrists who think fascists should not face justice and progressives who think fascists should face justice. Some people need to remember that the most important thing is to win! Everyone pull together put aside differences get the W. Then you can make things happen. Honestly? They wont try to resolve it. Theyll try to beat the progressives into submission like they always do and will lose elections to fascists because of it. It wont matter what the DNC does as long as people like you are seeding division by suggesting that liberal democrats sit on the centerright. The democrats are never going to resolve their internal contradictions and will never recover as a powerful political organization. The party will be inconsistent in messaging and wracked with infighting until it fractures. Simple liberals need to recon with the fact that they’re republicans who want to take a no steppy” approach. Aka independents. Progressive action is how you keep your leftist base. unload the wackadooo far lefties squad etc and get back to common sense. Trump getting elected should tell the far left everything they need to know THE MAJORITY DO NOT SUPPORT YOU In This Thread Its all progressives faults and we liberals wont take any accountability for being leftofcenter in name only. The reality is progressives just have to accept actual reality instead of purity. Backing oil and gas production Progressives wanted no gas and oil which cant happen and have a functioning economy. Bidens Inflation reduction act was a huge win for green energy progressives refused to acknowledge. Less than 2% of the total emissions were offset by the gas permitting portion of it. Seeking endorsements from anti Trump Republicans like Liz Chaney Cheney was part of republicans that acknowledge the dangers of trump while seeking 0 policy concessions to get the endorsement. Increased criticism of proPalestinian protesters They made things worse for the Palestinians instead of better. In fact Israel bibi saw it was damaging dems and extended the conflict Promising to fix the border with restrictive immigration policies Thats just following the public. It was too open for 23 years and clamped too late. Even immigrants hate more open borders. Backing away from trans rights issues Trans sport is an issue on which 80% of americans agree on that trans woman dont get to play woman sports. Its a losing issue. Its not a civil rights issue. Its a segregated playing issue. Woman play in their own leagues. Compare this to civil rights that had 60% support when it passed. They will do what they always do. They will crush the progressives and promise them some concessions if they win behind the scenes if they fall in line. As a moderate Democrat but voted for Harris the issue seems to be Many of us feel the party has shifted far left over the last 25 years and thats left many of us without a candidate. Some have stopped voting. Many people are uneducated and believe the call to action from the right and have a swung to Republican. The Democratic voters the most vigilant call everyone who doesnt agree with all policies they are pushing the enemy. Moderate Democrats are practically bundled in with MAGA. Sorry but just because you want universal income and want socially funded trans surgeries doesnt mean we all have to. And that stance pushes away voters you have more in common with than you dont. But the loud minority of Democratic voters is literally attacking itself like an autoimmune disease and killing itself from the inside. The Democrats dont do as good of a job attacking the right as the right does the left. The right lies and manipulates and the left takes the high road. While Im not saying that we resort to the same tactics we need to be faster smarter and more effective at attacking the idiocy of the right and swing the middle back. AND ... you dont preach to your base you already have them. You attack the opponent with experiences not facts that hit home that any idiot can understand. You need to find people who were hurt by Trump and his entire party and flood the country with it. Make sure they are people that everyone can relate to. Take marketing teams and create slogans like they did with Lets Go Brandon that go viral. Post 50 How do you reconcile hating the Taliban with hating the US occupation of Afghanistan? The 20year US occupation of Afghanistan is generally viewed as pointless at best and an illegal occupation and violation of sovereignty at worst. I understand the former sentiment— folks just didn’t want their tax dollars going to something that stopped serving American safety after the death of Bin Laden but I don’t really understand the latter sentiment. How I see it Afghanistan really only had two options the Taliban or US occupation. Judging by how instantaneously the Taliban regained power after the US withdrawal I would argue that the assertion isn’t that far fetched. People who believed that the US military was wrongfully occupying Afghanistan and generally treat the occupation as the same as the actually baseless Iraq invasion aren’t really the kind to support the Taliban so why do they still argue against US occupation? Do they believe there are any other options for Afghanistan? If so what are they? . This is a subreddit for genuine discussion * Please keep it civil. Report rulebreaking comments for moderator review. * Dont post low effort comments like joke threads memes slogans or links without context. * Help prevent this subreddit from becoming an echo chamber. Please dont downvote comments with which you disagree. Violators will be fed to the bear. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Just cause two forces are opposed to each other doesnt mean one is good and the other is bad. Both can be terrible or have some good points in different ratios and mixes. Its easy to simultaneously hate a terroristic theocracy and also hate the actions and the aggressor nations who lead to the radicalization and growth of religious extremism. Bad guys are a dime a dozen world is full of them. I dont think anyone successfully morally or logically reconciles hating the Taliban and hating the US military being in Afghanistan to support the legitimate government. There are probably some people who hate the United States liberal democracy and human rights more than they hate the Taliban. They are the same people both on the right and on the left who cheered when Russia invaded Ukraine. Totalitarians and theocrats tend to stick together. an illegal occupation and violation of sovereignty at worse uh Besides random idiots on the Internet and the occasional tenured professor who exactly advocated for this view? Illegal occupation and violation of sovereignty?? All Americans seem to just assume Afghanistan was the same as Iraq because they were both middle east wars… The US did not barge into Afghanistan uninvited. The religious authorities across Afghanistan wanted the US to deal with the Taliban. They had captured Kabul and were forcing the people there to live under Sharia Law. No music. No reading for girls. No shaving for men. Meanwhile scattered warlords fought each other and the Taliban. The CIA went into Afghanistan with brief cases full of cash and met with the various war lords got them to put aside their differences in exchange for money and the CIA coordinated an assault to liberate Kabul. The Taliban didn’t even put up a fight. They fled. Kabul was liberated without firing a shot. And the people of Kabul rejoiced in the streets! And then the US military held Kabul for 20 years before giving up saying we don’t have the money to stay there. Trump legitimized Taliban leaders on the world stage invited them to Camp David like they were official statesmen and informed them of when the US would be leaving so they could just roll in and take everything over. And what did the people of Kabul do? Say good riddance we hate the Americans!”? No they ran to the fucking airport and threw babies over the fence and literally hung on to the fucking planes as they took off and died! We were not unwanted in Afghanistan. They needed us and we bettayed them. Even the ones who fought with us and got US visa they are right now being revoked and they’re being sent back to Afghanistan to be tortured and executed by the Taliban. The objective of US forces in Afghanistan was to prevent the nation from being conquered by the Taliban and turned into a base of operations where islamic extremists could plan additional terror attacks. We failed. We should have kept fighting. Americans act like the human cost was too much like so many soldiers were dying there. Many more Americans were shot and killed by Americans in America than American soldiers were killed by the Taliban in Afghanistan. The world is full of bad trade offs. The Taliban are a terrible oppressive force but quashing them wouldve required a much larger commitment than what the American and enough of the Afghan people were willing to commit. We had Osama in the very early phases of the occupation and the generals willingly failed to get him and then spent 20 years lying about Afghanistan. I can understand the Taliban is evil and hate them and I can understand that we needed to get Osama but who I really hate is the polliticians and generals that didnt do their jobs. You understand that the US had direct involvement with the formation of the Taliban. As someone who spent some time in Afghanistan the occupation didnt exactly happen because we were bored and decided to do it one day. Even comparisons in the justification of setting foot in Afghanistan were different vs the Iraq War. Ive never hated any of the adversaries Ive had to face. I had a job to do. I questioned their tactics and goals. And I was committed to trying to stop both Taliban and other insurgents from accomplishing their goals. Did a bunch of deployments to Afghanistan during GWOT. The main issue is GIROA provided no services to the people outside of the major cities. Which means the populace will go along with whoever’s in power and not fight against whoever’s trying to take power because they have nothing to gain/lose. There were no other options for Afghanistan as they export goods with low economic value and aren’t worth any outside investment. The core issue of Afghanistan was that they harbored an organization and their leader openly a leader who had orchestrated the death of over 3.000 American citizens. NATO had recognized an Article 5 case and the US had sent the Taliban an ultimatum demanding they hand out the leader of the organization which they couldnt really do without losing all credibility. As such NATO and not only the US invaded Afghanistan and removed the Taliban temporarily from power. In that sense the US did act in accordance with international standards. The linchpin of the argument that it was illegal rides on the UN charter which declares all wars of aggression illegal unless sanctioned by the UN. Unfortunately collective action is still not a reality and such events become political poker games and so there were only two conflicts ever recognized by the UN the Korean War in the 1950s and Operation Desert Storm in 1991. It became clear that the US was not going to be able to get an approval from the UN and therefore acted unilaterally. Wherever you stand on this point makes the action either legal or illegal. One could argue that the US was justified to do what it did after the actions by the Afghan regime one can of course argue that they didnt adhere to the UN charter they had signed. Latest when Bin Laden had been captured in 2011 the question arises why the US didnt leave Afghanistan. Its reason for being there having been resolved. Article 43 and others of The Hague convention specifies that the occupying power has the responsibility to take all the measures in his power to restore and ensure as far as possible public order and safety while respecting unless absolutely prevented the laws in force in the country. Again its a matter of how you read this responsibility but the prevailing read was the nation building the USled NATO forces engaged in. The stories about how women and girls were treated after the US left confirm the worst fears people had about it but it does run up against the willingness of the US to pay for it and the right to self determination. Personally I believe most US people do not understand how unique WW2 was and they built less nation in Germany and Japan than they think they did. I think they should have left in 2011 once their objective was achieved and let the Afghanis find their own way as painful as it would be for the women living there. Until then I think US and NATO action was justifiable. That changes nothing that I think the Taliban are the worst kind of ignorant POS and I wish they wouldnt have as much power as they do but then I despise the ignorant assholes the world over foreign and domestic. Why am I supposed to hate the Taliban? I hate Al Qaeda for being a terrorist organization that attacked us and others but I dont think those are synonymous. I disagree with how they govern their theocracy and how they treat women adamantly. But disagreement is not hate. They rejected and fought the government we tried to put in place over them to bring western values when we invaded them but not super shocked about that. IIRC our reason for invading Wolfowitz Rumsfeld Neo Conservatism and The Project for a New American Century was primarily that we couldnt countenance an isolated failed state that didnt participate in western economic and political systems because it was seen as a place where terrorists could fester. OK but thats not a reason to hate a bunch of isolationist religious extremist sheepherders. They didnt do 9/11 that was a bunch of Saudis. They did harbor BinLaden after the fact but we helped make him a hero to them during the Soviet occupation and they have some pretty specific beliefs about hospitality and obligations that we dont share. He turned out to be hiding in Pakistan though he certainly hid out in Afghanistan for a while too. There could be reasons I am missing. The Taliban were raised on U.S. textbooks from the university of Omaha in Pakistan telling them that Jihad was their duty and other insane things to tell children. Their leaders were subcommanders from the Mujahideen who grown disillusioned with how horrible and awful they were with their regular abuse of children called bacha bazi. The northern alliance warlords are hated by Afghanis because of their practice of bachi bazi as well there as there lawlessness and corruption. Which is why the people prefer the Taliban to the warlords. this interview should help you understand e why it was all a farce and horrible for everyone outside of Kabul. How I see it Afghanistan really only had two options the Taliban or US occupation. Thats the part thats up for debate. It was absolutely possible for the US to invade occupy for a few years and build up stable institutions such that a somewhat democratic Afghanistan would be able to stand on its own and then leave. But we never did. Nation building was cut short because we diverted resources to the invasion of Iraq. The great irony of this is that the Afgan war which was internationally condoned with clear causus belli and receptive locals was ultimately a failure while the morallyquestionable and bloody Iraq war resulted in something much closer to success. Iraq today is the most democratic state in the arab world and Afghanistan is a failed state run by a cult. I think the more interesting thought argument is how people would feel if the Taliban talked about US colonies the way we talk about afghanistans scattered regions/warlords”. It’s like if you support the 13 colonies banding together under a war general/army against the British colonization then surely you support Afghanistan banding together under the taliban against American colonization? The people of Afghanistan don’t like the Taliban” yea and there’s more than plenty accounts of how much people in the colonies weren’t exactly fans of Washington’s army either. No serious person argued against the US invasion and occupation of Afghanistan. A hostile nation provided material support to a terrorist organization that attacked us. That was a justified casus belli according to International Law and the laws of war. As opposed to the Iraw war Therefore no reconciliation is necessary. Now once the war dragged on with an absolutely incompetent army a people who give their allegiance to Tribe before Country . . . What could be done? We either leaver or turn it into a colony. We left and the Taliban is back. Still barbaric but more worldy arguably. They may do their harsh form of Sharia but they certainly will not allow themselves to be used by a supranational terrorist organization like AlQaeda or ISIS again. Russia or China will strike some mineral deal etcetera etcetera and well all move on Hate is the wrong word. And I wouldnt interfere in Afghanistan because that is where empires go to die. A state being controlled by an entity who i am opposed to is not justification for war regime change occupation and all that comes with it. Thats would be true even if the US had a record of success and successfully liberalizing and democratizing countries as it is i consider the taliban to be the lesser of two evils in the choice between them and the usa. US occupation is preferable to the Taliban in my opinion without a doubt but its the USs fault the Taliban rose to power anyway. whos weapons have they been using this entire time since they were armed to fight the Soviets? if anything it is the USs mess to clean up unfortunately the US is bad at organization and controlling crime and terrorism in their own country so its exceedingly unlikely they could still provide the governance needed in Afghanistan. Id say I hate the Taliban in the matter I hate anybody who tramples all over human rights. I wish they werent the government there but they are. The entire planets problems are not mine to solve so spending any of my own mental energy worried about the Taliban is a waste of it I hated the US nationbuilding occupation because it was rudderless and failed to understand the people it was trying to modernize. We didnt have a real plan we just started stitching pieces together and throwing money around and hoped it would work. We built a NATOstyle military for them not one that would be able to function on its own. We assumed the people were clamoring for democracy not mostly backwards religious nutjobs loyal to their ethnic tribes who didnt think Afghanistan was a real country. The mission was too broad it should have been to wreck the Taliban and kill OBL as quickly as possible and leave them to their devices. Cant fix a country that doesnt want to fix itself Afghanistan has been in a constant state of war for over 50 years thats finally subsiding now that the Taliban have been in control for a few years and seem more interested in international recognition than they were in the 1990s. All we need to do is ensure our own security its up to the people of Afghanistan if they want something different. Easy for westerners to say they dont want this but this isnt the west. Many of them believe to the core theyre supposed to live exactly as Allah did and punish by death anyone who disagrees and theyre all willing to die to defend that ideology and dont want anything to do with the rest of the world. Let them have at it it’s all about Evil versus Good if good men do not intervene then Evil will prevail most of the middle east have embedded Evil The people of Afghanistan were way better off in the 20 years of US occupation than they are now I don’t think it as an illegal occupation given that the state was a sponsor of terror that hit the US. This notion that you’re not accountable because you operate through a proxy is hogwash or collaborating with them. The nation is accountable and we held them to that. To answer your question the people need to buy into the government you’re hoping to achieve. Lots of good will hearts and minds activities a ton of communication and marketing activities and you probably need to stay stable for longer than we did so that generations grow up with a new and better way of life. So another 20 years and we might have won them over it wasn’t something we wanted to do now we learned.. Maybe next time we go defeat our enemies and leave or approach nation building differently The invasion of Afghanistan was justifiable at its inception. It wasnt an omnibus occupation but narrowly intended to locate the people who planned the attacks on September 11 2001. Those people highranking members of alQaeda including its leader Osama bin Laden were in Afghanistan which was under the control of the Taliban who were likely protecting the people the U.S. wanted to find. The subsequent Iraq War which had no legitimate purpose and which was started based on lies diverted resources from Afghanistan and muddied Americas moral authority. Suddenly America was not the victim of a terrorist attack seeking to find and punish its perpetrators but rather was an invading and colonizing force which instantly expended whatever good will it had after September 11 by choosing to unilaterally invade another country without justification. Taliban = far far worse than anythimg USA has done .... Different leagues Even americas most wretched stuff is not even debatable with taliban The point of going into Afghanistan was to destroy Bin Laden and his group the Taliban was just in our way and in a tough spot themselves and that mission creeped into replace the Taliban which was never really an achievable goal. Daddy Gore wasn’t going to save us from Afghanistan As soon as 9/11 happened Afghanistan was going to happen. Hell even if the Taliban gave UBL up Afghanistan would have still probably happened Post 51 Would it be of Benefit for Each Bill to Contain a List of Pros and Cons? Imagine the following scenario Each bill presented before Congress would contain a list of pros and cons that could be submitted by any legislator accompanied by a list of which legislators support each pro/con. The pros/cons would not require a source or evidence. Example Nuclear Renaissance Act A bill to increase funding for nuclear energy. Pros * Will result in an increase of carbonneutral energy Rep. Joe Smith DTX Rep. Ted Kline RWY Cons * Will increase the risk of nuclear accident Rep. Diane Fink DCA Rep. Joel Wilson ROR Would such a clause benefit legislative literacy and public involvement? . This is a subreddit for genuine discussion * Please keep it civil. Report rulebreaking comments for moderator review. * Dont post low effort comments like joke threads memes slogans or links without context. * Help prevent this subreddit from becoming an echo chamber. Please dont downvote comments with which you disagree. Violators will be fed to the bear. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* If youre not requiring evidence someone opposed to a bill could put would enable eating babies in the cons. Legislation can also have impacts that some people would consider a problem while others would consider it beneficial quite easily so even a third party verified list of items wouldnt necessarily be useful. Youre missing it. They could totally make laws that are simple unambiguous and easy to understand. They choose not to. Its more advantageous to make vague laws and any details or loopholes be fleshed out by the courts. Also when youre spending the big bucks you wanna make sure your rich buddies are excluded if you can. E.g. 7 house laws in the UK I dont know about pros and cons being that useful. Theyre either opinion or fact if theyre facts they should be coming from leading experts in that field and if theyre opinions theyre not worth much. Id much prefer they state how theyre measuring success and if legislation isnt accomplishing its stated goals its automatically repealed. Often bills have a preamble that states the purpose and you may have everybody agree that the stated goals are good. The debate is will this work and if it passes more thought it would than wouldnt or people didnt want to be on record voting against the stated purpose. Forcing a measurement of effectiveness would at least nullify things that were passed on doublespeak. One thing I do like at least for ballot measure is what California does a voting guide is published by the state that includes a supporting statement from the organization leading the measure an opposition statement and a neutral statement from the state discussing the budget impacts and impacts to state logistics. No. Pros Will result in an increase of carbonneutral energy Rep. Joe Smith DTX Rep. Ted Kline RWY Cons Will not result in an increase of carbonneutral energy Rep. Diane Fink DCA Rep. Joel Wilson ROR So what have we gained in this situation? There may be summaries available somewhere. The boards of canvassers does this at the state and local level. Maybe?! I THINK! If there isnt there should be. No because in order for people to believe in the pros and cons in bills they also have to experience them. If you had to prove not explain prove to a trans person or a latino person born in the government that the change is beneficial to them how would you? For a trans person that part of their life not only isnt seen but is being taken away. And not just illegal immigrants but legal hispanic people. If Stephen Miller is bragging about wanting to denaturalize citizens take their citizenship away and deport whole families as the acting chief of staff why would people belonging to marginalized groups want to trust them. Or women? So many women have heard stories of sexual assault and life saving abortions and experienced them. If the track record is that hard in the opposite direction can you make sense with words alone? When you just try to talk to convince people in these groups it sounds like youre just trying to trick them. People need reasons to trust you have to give them reasons. Earlier I posted about empathy and part of the reason that is difficult for conservatives is that empathy gives people a way to understand each others intentions which is crucial to trust. If the intent is simply to further an agenda rather than to try and help eachother people can sense that. If you ever hear someone say no Im smarter than that thats what they mean. Not that you dont understand each others words but that you dont value each others sides or lived experiences and that the opinions that have been reached arent consistent with their values. \*Edited to add context Congress already debates the pros of cons of bills up for vote. I dont see how this proposal adds anything. Post 52 Imagine a law or constitutional clause requiring people seeking elected or appointed positions or who already have them had to cite a specific source when they make a claim which is presented or implied to be a fact. Do you think this is a good idea? Even rather mundane and short research papers or papers issued by someone like the Congressional Research Service include citations in a specific style to easily look them up. If they dont cite a source then they must expressly state that what they claim is an opinion they believe but is not proven. I imagine that statements that would be able to count as judicial notice would be exempt. Does that sound helpful? South Australia has elements of what I have in mind written into state law and is fairly effective and still has free discussion and debate. Page 99 of the PDF if you want to read it. . This is a subreddit for genuine discussion * Please keep it civil. Report rulebreaking comments for moderator review. * Dont post low effort comments like joke threads memes slogans or links without context. * Help prevent this subreddit from becoming an echo chamber. Please dont downvote comments with which you disagree. Violators will be fed to the bear. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* No. Freedom of speech is as important as it gets. Unfortunately this means people can spew lots of bullshit. Its up to the listener/consumer to educate themselves and make choices based on that. We dont HAVE to vote for liars or patronize the stores of grifters. Pretty sure this will have the unintended affect of destroying academia as billions of dollars pour in to push every which narrative in the world. Even more than what is already happening. I feel like this couldn’t possibly work because even in this sentence itself I can identify so many claims that are in turn rising so fast I can’t properly form a sentence structure around it And now that I’ve properly written it out in the previous sentence I can easily identify 8 assertions *This couldn’t possibly work *That I am of that opinion I feel” *This is because of the number of claims I made *That I can identify those claims *That the number of claims was increasing as I was writing them out *That they speed at which they were rising was fast *That I could not properly form a sentence structure *That this was because of the speed at which they were rising And that’s not even going into implications inferred statements or any real stretches. And sure you could argue that any number of these don’t count though I doubt you could get it down to one but if what you proposed existed a corrupt president would have already installed loyalists who would minimize the number of claims they recognize he makes while maximizing the number of claims any of his political enemies make meaning that if I were a political enemy I’d have gotten hit with 8 counts of breaking that law in my first sentence alone and at best would have had to fight it in court. Do that for every single sentence I say and even if I win all my court battles which let’s face it I wouldn’t since I *did* make a nonzero number of claims in that sentence I’d go bankrupt almost immediately and then start losing them under a flood of citations This is far far too easy to corrupt and ultimately useless as it simply requires that the liars be the ones in charge of whatever office is in charge of enforcing this law which is generally gonna be the very politicians being scrutinized I dont think its a bad idea but pols make a lot of claims. It would be doable e.g. by having a campaign reference expert but only for claims made in writing functionally impossible for verbal claims. The US will end up with the entire Republican party citing Newsmax Info Wars and Zero Hedge as sources. If anything this will promote bad sources by giving them an air of credibility. According to the Institute for Historical Review there was no holocaust... That would be an accurate assertion within that context The IHR is a Holocaust denial cult that publishes longwinded papers that make absurd claims and that are themselves filled with footnotes and cites to bogus sources. The IHRs goal is to make lies seem credible by burying the reader with data that just happens to be false or mostly false. Liberals and the left need to get over this idea that the far right is caused by disinformation. It is the opposite The desire for far right comfort food leads to suppliers that eagerly supply it. A man hears what he wants to hear and disregards the rest. Ending the disinfomation begins with ending the demand for it. As youve worded it this sounds terrible. They need to provide a source for *all* claims of fact that they make? What if they say they stubbed their toe yesterday. Do they need a source? What is they are responding verbally and off the cuff to an attack on their character or record? I suggest revising your suggestion to be very clear and specific. Who enforces this? And who polices the language of the enforcer? A vague law restricting speech would most likely have constitutional issues for good reason. It would be easily abused and manipulated to silence one side while the incumbent imprisons any opposition for lying. Good idea in theory but would probably just result in politicians citing works by crackpot think tanks. Half of American adults read below the seventh grade level and most people are not even going to bother to look at any of the cited works. It could be an industryregulated branding strategy. Politicians who ascribe to a minimum ethics standard cite their sources and guarantee the images they use aren’t deep fakes. Of course the problem is a vast number of American voters don’t seem to want to live in reality so right now there’s insufficient demand to drive this. Can you give me an example of something that has been said that couldn’t be said under this rule? It would be irrelevant. Trump for example would just have some dude with a PhD on staff who he would cite. Bob told me this was true. There ya go! He already does this. Its a classic Trump saying to go well many people told me this. When hes confronted with one of his lies. You mean...science? It would be cool and have some upsides but would be used just like bad science is now. They would site their pet studies funded by sympathetic organizations or newspapers that they basically own. Trump could cite whoever made up the Theyre eating the dogs claim RFK could cite any number of bunk studies by quacks and chiropractors that raw milk is good for you and measles can be walked off. It would definitely be positive but republican politicians would freak if they couldnt DARVO I don’t know the answer but this is without a doubt one of the top issues facing our time. Maybe they require this of news outlets and not individual politicians. At least the lies won’t be spread. This is bad for a lot of reasons but Ill bring up one I havent seen discussed yet You just greatly increased the cost of running for office. And of course we have the potential for this to be weaponized. Also theres ways to sidestep the rules and still end up with the same message. Heres an example Say Trump wanted to claim Biden had a open border policy and for the sake of argument lets assume theres a clear definition of what that would mean and that the claim is false. So Trump just puts out an ad saying Biden had what Fox News described as an open border policy. Now so long as its true that Fox News made the claim Trump is in the clear. We already have this to a degree. With factcheckers scientists etc...Adding more data does not make information. Also there is a difference between facts and truths. Facts are facts but both camps spin their own truth. The best indicator of future performance is past performance. That is what must be examined. Anyone without a past in the scope of intension should not be considered. Post 53 With Rand Paul starting to speak out against some of Trump’s policies could he be planning a 2028 bid? Recently Rand Paul has been staking out more positions against what is in Trumps agenda. Most recently he has started speaking out against the Big Beautiful Bill with his The Emperor has no clothes comment on Fox and arguing that theres a conservative perspective to counter the proposal. Paul briefly entered a presidential run in 2016 and has gradually been defecting from Trumps agenda based on ideological differences. He could possibly be pursuing this to try surviving whatever might happen to the party once Trump is gone but with how red Kentucky is his reelection in 28 is likely to begin with albeit slightly complicated if Beshear challenges him that year. So if its not to keep a stable brand for his reelection some could argue it could be because hes considering a presidential bid in 2028. The 2028 Republican Primary will be the first one in 12 years to not feature Trump as the front runner and the media speculation area of the Wikipedia page for the 2028 election has several candidates who have been speculated by at least one media source as a possible contender suggesting the possibility of a crowded primary. However Rand Paul also has not to my knowledge expressed interest in running for president again since his initial attempt 12 years ago so theres a chance hes not even considering it. Is it a real possibility that Senator Pauls defections are to set him apart for a presidential bid in 2028 or could it be something else entirely? . This is a subreddit for genuine discussion * Please keep it civil. Report rulebreaking comments for moderator review. * Dont post low effort comments like joke threads memes slogans or links without context. * Help prevent this subreddit from becoming an echo chamber. Please dont downvote comments with which you disagree. Violators will be fed to the bear. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* He has always been like this regardless of the party that holds power and it has never impacted his ability to win reelection in Kentucky. If Trump had not run for a second term or had been defeated in the primary there would be a void in the direction of the GOP to take which he could fill. With Trump having won a second term it’s more likely a MAGA heirapparent appears which Rand Paul is not. Alternatively he may find he is more valuable as a senator. In situations where the GOP has a razor thin majority his can afford to take hardline budget stances knowing house republicans will have to make concessions to him as they can’t afford defectors in the senate. Maybe? It’s part ideological and part political calculus imo. Like Rand Paul has always been slightly out of step with mainstream Republicans with him leaning more libertarian. I still think he would vote for things Republican leadership wanted if his vote actually mattered. With these tariffs the argument that it is anticompetition and the government controlling the economy by picking winner and loser is absolutely true. For example if he hits Iphone with a 25% tariff that means that all other phone brands specifically galaxy will be cheaper. It is in essence a centrally planned economy controlled by a single man. I feel libertarians like Rand Paul really don’t like that much government control over what is supposed to be the free market. Differing slightly I feel he is cautiously focusing on the future. He has mentioned a few times now that any time Republicans have done tariffs in the past it has hurt them immensely like McKinley’s tariffs which saw one of the largest Democratic gains in the house and SmootHawley which locked Democratic control of the house/Senate for decades only exceptions under Eisenhower. These tariffs are hurting the economy. And people vote with their wallet. If Republicans suffer heavy losses in 2026 which is pointing towards yes with all these smaller/special elections happening the same things happened in 2013 before the 2014 red wave when Republicans were picking up heavily Democratic seats then Paul can position himself as the natural new leader of the party for defying” Trump at least rhetorically. We havent really heard the words small government conservatism in a long while. Whatever prospects he once had I think they went out with that. The first time Rand ran it was a total disaster. I remember during the last days of his campaign he was standing in a parking lot exhausted and literally mumbling to himself. A presidential campaign puts every sucker through their paces. I don’t believe he’ll embarrass himself like that again? I used to be a conservative many years ago. In my opinion Rand Paul son of Ron Paul is one of the few true conservatives in the Republican Party. I don’t agree with Rand Paul’s politics anymore I became a progressive and I think he’s an extremist but i think he’s a true conservative who is against corruption and values the constitution and founding principles of our country. Most of the Republican politicians I’ve come to realize are just sleazy hypocrital politicians with no moral compass or grounded principles. I think Rand Paul is a true ideologue for good or bad.. He’s always stood stubbornly on his conservative values and doesn’t flip on a dime just because Trump wants it. So I don’t think Rand Paul is saying these things just to get a political advantage down the road. I think he actually believes in what he’s saying. He might want to run but has ni chance of winning. It will be interesting bc no way will trump leave without a fight. So are all these pussyass election deniers going to stand up to Trump now? I dont think so. Some showed a little courage on January 07 2021. That was peak courage for gop Speak out against” Rand literally wants more cuts to fuel the tax cuts. He’s arguing in favor of a more demonic position than the admin is currently pursuing somehow. Even if he somehow sincerely believes all of it his effect on the lives of millions upon millions of ppl has been essentially demonic and worthy of fighting a holy war against like the rest of the gop leadership. He doesn’t deserve any of the comments OP included in this post that make it sounds like he’s some of truth teller he’s just another iteration of Lucifer metaphorically speaking. Rand Paul as was his father always was more independent than just toeing the party line. Although I like a lot of his no nonsense positions I don’t see him garnering enough broad support for a national run. Thomas Massey and Rand Paul would be an interesting KentuckyCombo. Someone will certainly run in the littlel libertarian lane in 2028 but Im highly doubtful itll be Rand Paul once more. Thomas Massie would be the most interesting possibility but I wager its someone more malleable like Chip Roy who makes a go at it. Benton Rands nephew in law assistant for Rand and McConnell i thought rand paul was next up back in 2014ish until Trump came on the scene. But the GOP has taken a HARD turn and his ilk no longer has a substantial base. Its far right from here on out. It’s amazing to me that these guys can vote 100% with the gop and somehow convince their voters that they are different”. It’s why most of us assume the entire population of Kentucky is about as smart as a clam. Post 54 If Green &amp Libertarian Parties were big are there Blue states that could go Green or Red states that could go Yellow? Basically if the US were a 4 party country are there any blue states that could potentially flip green in an election or any red states that could potentially flip libertarian in an election?. Obviously there’s more parties but I can’t see the Reform party winning a whole state . This is a subreddit for genuine discussion * Please keep it civil. Report rulebreaking comments for moderator review. * Dont post low effort comments like joke threads memes slogans or links without context. * Help prevent this subreddit from becoming an echo chamber. Please dont downvote comments with which you disagree. Violators will be fed to the bear. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* I disagree with the notion that there is a sizable libertarian bloc among US voters at all. The current administration is dramatically increasing the power of the executive branch directly dictating the direction of the economy and dramatically increasing the deficit. They still maintain a 90% approval rating among republicans. If things were completely different how would they be different? is kind of a weird question without a real answer. The big issue with the Green and Libertarian parties is even a casual glance at their stated platforms demonstrate that they have no real interest in governing so based on that it is hard to interpret what would happen as theyd actually need to adopt real world policy to get elected and who knows what that would look like. Cant say for green but Libertarian states would 100% include New Hampshire Alaska and a fair bit of the great plains states like Idaho and Montana Libertarianism is an impossible government. Libertarianism is the idea floating alone in the middle of the ocean is an appealing way to live. The Greens need to run for local office. Prove their organizing power and have policy positions. Libertarians by their nature do not generally form coalitions If you want a 4 party country you gotta switch your elections to . Let me know if you want help getting started on a referendum. Libertarians and Greens are just dropouts from the two main parties too chicken to defend those policies and exist only for virtue signaling Colorado might switch from blue to yellow. We have a very libertarianfriendly socially progressive democrat as governor for a reason. In the presidential election no for Congress there are definitely some places that could go green or libertarian. Though I feel like the Republican/conservative vote is pretty happy with being authoritarian so Im not sure that they could go libertarian Montana Idaho Alaska and New Hampshire for Libertarians. Vermont Washington state and Massachusetts for the Greens. Colorado and Oregon would probably be competitive for both. Truthfully most states east of the Mississippi have well established political systems that would make it hard for third parties to compete. The South has always been more or less a one party system although who that one party is has changed over time and the Northeast is dominated by urban political machines that engage in a lot of horsetrading that third parties can’t compete with. The Western states developed later and have less entrenched political systems and a voting public descended from rugged individualists. The answer to this question will depend on whether or not some big celebrity from that state decides to run as an L or G. If the United States eliminated ballot access laws difficult since the people with the power to do that directly benefit from not doing that we could become a two and a half party system like the UK or Canada where small parties can get influence on the margins but cant actually win without displacing a large party. If we then followed this with the elimination of plurality voting wed see more than four parties. We might see seven in Congress Center left Call these guys the Neoliberals for lack of a better term. Here go the establishment Democrats your Clintons Obamas and Bidens. They will run on social democracy and abundance economics YIMBY Democrats. They can field a quarter of the House and their strength is on the East Coast. Center right Call these guys the Neoconservatives because why not. Theyre the establishment Republicans and theyre a little bit embarrassed that their platforms are so similar. In centrist leaning areas these two parties either try not to compete or have the election swung by a popular alternative candidate. They are the other quarter of the House. Their strength is the Midwest. Left This is your DSA Bernie and AOC party. They run on democratic socialism. Whether or not they deliver is left as an exercise to the reader. They are a populist party and vulnerable to being hijacked by a charismatic leader who doesnt share their ideals. Theyve got about 15% of the House. They do best on the West Coast. Right Constitutional Conservative Tea Party types. They directly compete with the Libertarian Party generally on the grounds that theyre not crazy but when push comes to shove most of them will line up with the center right and the far right anyway. They are also a populist party vulnerable to being hijacked. Theyve got about 15% of the House. They do best in the South. Far left Greens and Communists play over here but dont win very much. Give them 8% of the House and a few spots in larger cities of the Pacific Northwest and Northeast but no states. Far right Christian Nationalists and worse things are over here. Hopefully they have exactly as much influence as the Greens and Communists. Give them 8% of the House and a few spots in rural areas of the South and New England but no states. Directly in the middle between the center left and center right parties are the Libertarians not because their ideology is in the middle but because theyre a swing vote on issues siding with the left or the right without loyalty to either. They will never have a majority in Congress but they dont need it they just need to make sure they can cover the spread. Give them 4% of the House Ive just described and while they may not be able to control it they can stop anyone they dont like from controlling it either. They dont control any states but their strongest showings are in the Mountain West and Alaska. Utah could be an interesting wild card if the Mormons get sufficiently pissed off but they’re not really the libertarian type. I can’t think of any state that might be tempted to go Green. I mean the Green Party tends to be seen as being about environmental concerns first and foremost with other progressive policies all playing second fiddle. Idk where that voting base is. And the Libertarians as an umbrella ideology while historically strong on the economic front has been seeing reduced receptiveness from both the right and the left as people become more wary of free trade and trickle down economics. Honestly these are vestigial third parties whose purpose is in question as our politics goes through this current realignment. I can’t see how either of these parties have a future. Basically any of the states where either the Republican or Democratic brand are seen as toxic are ones where a lane could be opened for Greens or Libertarians depending on how they presented themselves. Just look at the recent senate elections in Nebraska and how poorly the Democratic candidate did in the special election compared to Dan Osborn he doesn’t fit neatly in with either party’s ideology but for sure has some Libertarian like positions alongside some more progressive ones. Negative partisanship is why both the Dems and the GOP are able to do so well despite both parties having such poor approval ratings overall that gets a lot harder to do if you need to sell a narrative of sure my party sucks but the other *three* suck more” instead of just stoking the hatred for one other party. You’d probably see a movement away from over reliance on negative partisanship as a result and that could even open up some lanes for some states to be red that were blue and the other way around or even red and blue states as opposed to combos with yellow or green. im going to interpret big as voters are educated on these parties and what they actually mean. not comprehensive but georgia and texas probably become democrat majority i think that the libertarians would be popular here but the greens would not. the less populated western states like idaho wyoming montana go libertarian oregon washington colorado probably go green maybe minnesota and michigan too? new hampshire probably goes yellow and vermont green california would be hilariously split up equally across 4 parties new york new jersey virginia possibly swing red due to greens being popular but libertarians not being popular these are just my instincts not really grounded in anything but observation No. Any political change is likely to happen within the twoparty system. The political infrastructure and funding in both of the two major parties is so vastly superior to any of the third parties that even if you lean Green or Libertarian you are much more likely to have success within one of the two main parties. Ron Paul has talked about this at length. He ran for president as a Libertarian and achieved far more success and influence as an alsoran within the GOP. Until we change the electoral congress institute instant run off voting and Established campaign finance reform it is impossible for any one but Republicans or democrats to win A presidential election. Without a viable candidate and pathway to presidency a party has very little chance of getting off the ground. Massive funding and Campaigning would be needed to get people running in all the elections And those funds traditionally come from the corporate billionaire class who already has their two pupet parties. I think what youre asking for is where does each state land on the political compass and would any of them land in green or yellow? Theres numerous maps of that with a quick google. If the two major parties continue further in the direction theyve been going Democrats could become so establishmentarian that everyone really left wing would prefer the green party and Republicans so authoritarian that anyone who wants a government smaller than it currently is would prefer the libertarian party. Prerequisites for that would be a change in voting systems to avoid the spoiler effect and the libertarian and green parties radically changing their attitude and becoming big tent parties that welcome ideological diversity and lean towards the center. I dont expect any of those things to happen but if they did Id expect some mountain states to turn gold and west coast states to turn green. The two rightwing US parties are funded by corporations and a population that suffers from low intelligence due to relentless corporate propaganda. They all do everything they can to ensure the duopoly stays the duopoly. Post 55 In what ways might Reagan’s welfare queen narrative have influenced rural Americans’ support for the Starve the Beast strategy? In what ways might Reagan’s welfare queen narrative have influenced rural Americans’ support for the Starve the Beast strategy? Do you support or oppose starving the Beast? Why or Why not? Do you think it has caused the deficit to go up or down? . This is a subreddit for genuine discussion * Please keep it civil. Report rulebreaking comments for moderator review. * Dont post low effort comments like joke threads memes slogans or links without context. * Help prevent this subreddit from becoming an echo chamber. Please dont downvote comments with which you disagree. Violators will be fed to the bear. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* It worked when Obama was trying to pass Obamacare. People were complaining that Immigrants were getting free healthcare in emergency rooms. No laws had changed the ER mandate was the same since 1986 but you can convince voters that Obama was creating this new situation. We spend double what any other country spends on healthcare. No one should be going without. Our farmers are beneficiaries of the SNAP program as well as the people who need the food. I guess were about to find out what life is like with a diminished safety net. I think theres plenty of money in America especially in the stock market. no one should be going without food or healthcare. Grover Norquists starve the beast narrative is really something quite familiar privatization. The MAGA GOP is destroying government services in order to create opportunity for private citizens to make profitable businesses from recreating those services. Corporations are dictatorships so the public would have little recourse. It was the War on Poverty that flipped WASP Southern Democrats to the GOP. They supported the New Deal and social programs until LBJ made it clear that the wealth would have to be shared. The antiNew Deal wing of the Republican establishment had long opposed those programs while the wing that supported the New Deal eventually bailed out of the party. The GOP has long used racial wedge politics in order to build support for their position. The details of the rhetoric dont really matter. The GOP had this agenda long before Reagan entered office and it will remain a wedge issue that includes race as a component swamp or otherwise. I think that the US government and state governments for that matter make bad spending decisions all the time. Im not talking about things like welfare more in the line of that classic the Pentagon spent $640 on a toilet seat type of thing from the 80s. Theoretically starving the beast is one way to curb this the idea being that if the government had less money to spend theyd have to make better decisions on what to spend the money on. The problem is that it doesnt work. Theyre just going to keep doing what theyre doing and tack it on to the deficit. So you pay for it either way whether it comes out of your paycheck or it comes through inflation. I think that welfare is largely a red herring in this discussion. Its a highfriction wedge issue and as long as people keep talking about welfare spending on both sides they arent talking about the fact that government contracting is a fairly shady cottage industry thats lining a lot of pockets. The entire political spectrum is involved in this game so they are more than happy to let people duke it out over SNAP than actually look into this. I know that this sounds like a very libertarian post but I am not a libertarian. I just happened to work in a position that was deeply enmeshed in a state government and what I saw blew my mind then I went down the rabbit hole and here I am. Im convinced that the reason the conservatives think the government cant do anything right and is all bad is due to the vast majority of them living in conservative run states and local governments. Reagan cut taxes but he didn’t starve any beasts so I think the OP question is off base had spending been cut and rural America supported that then we could have a discussion but as it is taxes went down and spending went up so what ‘support’ for starving the beast is the OP referring to? My spin is that the welfare queen stuff making it covert racism sex shaming single mothers. Never a focus on the single father aspect and now in a more 50/50 single divorced and mixed families being a norm it’s blatant sexism. Just part of the political rhetoric for decades. I dont support it. I think there are much more humane ways to decrease the deficit of the federal government than cutting social programs people rely on to survive. For example increasing the capital gains tax rate to match the labor income tax rate or cutting loopholes in existing taxes that apply to people wealthy enough to afford tax lawyers. If the argument is about meritocracy then it would be hypocritical to focus only on those facing financial hardship earning benefits from the government and not on people who inherit large sums of wealth. Ideally a true meritocrat would endorse cutting government services *and* increasing the estate tax sealed from loophole lawyers to tax wealth above what would be considered an average inheritance like say $50000. The disproportionate emphasis only on welfare fraud by Republican politicians even though the amount of unearned resources they extract from society dwarfs that of millionaire/billionaire heirs does reveal some unfair political favoritism towards the wealthy that may have come more from a place of campaign finance influence considerations rather than ideology. And I say this as someone who inherited a considerable amount of wealth. Listen it had nothing to do with what happened 30+ years ago amd had EVERYTHING to do with the people all over tik tok and youtube BRAGGING how they scammed the system. Claiming fathers dont live with them to claim 0 income with 3 kids you had tik tok celebrities making bank from tik tok on bragging about being on FOOD STAMPS. Not to mention pretty much every Normie in America knows someone who will sell them their food stamps for cash. Great program but theyve gotten to laxidasical with not checking income amd the fraud has become apparent P.s i voted for Kamela trumps a douch canoe im just giving constructive critisism or ya know the truth. You asked why ppl are okay with this and thats why. Idk how accurate it is but ive seen these kind of videos for years Welfare Queen. Did he choose a woman for his story to be a misogynist? I think you need to evaluate a persons ability to work and the jobs available to see how fast you push a person to employment. Some areas of the United States do not have enough employment opportunities and people are not educated and experienced enough to start their own business. If you put a Welfare Queen with a group of people who share ideas and pep talks with her she might decide to get a job or help open a new business. There is more to getting people off of welfare than it looks to someone who has never needed welfare. And women arent the only ones who can get stuck on welfare. The government needs to make sure that each person on welfare can think outside the box enough to contribute to their community and their own selfreliance. Some people are either discouraged or too limited in their thinking. And women up to a certain year in the United States were often unemployed even when not disabled. Women were raised in the U.S. and other countries to believe that they shouldnt work. And their are still women like this in the United States. Dont just bad mouth women. Look to see the reasons a person doesnt work and talk to them about it. I think this question assumes that the political rhetoric creates the movement out of nothing. Reagan was more of a response to high inflation than a phenomenon created solely by charisma. The explanation that was prevalent among economists at the time was that government overspending was driving inflation and the best way to curb it wasnt the price controls that were bipartisan popular at the time but to cut spending and hike up interest rates. Inflation was finally curbed and changed both parties economic policy going forward. It is a rationalization for deep held beliefs that they cannot state in polite society Not a lot because those voters are dead. Besides significant welfare reform was passed during the Clinton Administration along with significant draw downs in military spending. It was the Cold War peace dividend. Another thing is that the political class always needs dragons to slay in order to justify their existence. I think that the argument is long past and no longer relevant. The Americans of the 1980s were afraid that their economic prosperity and basic freedoms were under threat. Now that reality has become absolutely true. The same Americans now are not worried about Welfare. Its a moot point. They are more concerned with economic and natural survival and the future is certain to be only more hostile to them. There is no point to starving the beast. Economic reality will absolutely starve the beast. If a country is less and less capable of innovation and innovation as is true in the US then obviously eventually the buying power of the dollar will eventually lesson. Presently however the US pays for public program by the creation of money and it does so without fear that its money will no longer be accepted by virtue of the fact that it has a great deal of military economic diplomatic and information operations power at its disposal which it can bring to bear against anyone that raises the point. So I dont think that this is relevant in modern politics. The GOP talks about what it talks about for the sake of political theater but taxes do not matter in terms of government spending which can in theory spend a limitless amount of money without consequence provided that its military and information operations strength holds. The welfare queen narrative as vilified as it is now was at the time the *latest* strike against an everexpanding welfare state not the first. Reagan by the time that example came amount had been railing against welfare programs for decades. Starve the beast was to an extent tried and failed. It was a worthy effort but it clearly doesnt work. Democrats had tremendous poweroften total control of the entire governmentfrom the 30s all the way up until 1994. So why didnt they actually fix these programs to end this narrative rather than defending it constantly and claiming it didnt need fixing at all until Republicans took the house for the first time in 50 years? Post 56 The last eight members of Congress to die in office have been Democrats. Why has the Democratic Party been so unwilling to hand power over to the next generation? 1. Representative Gerry Connolly of Virginia 2. Representative Raúl Grijalva of Arizona 3. Representative Sylvester Turner of Texas 4. Representative Bill Pascrell of New Jersey 5. Representative Sheila Jackson Lee of Texas 6. Representative Donald Payne of New Jersey 7. Senator Dianne Feinstein of California 8. Representative Donald McEachin of Virginia What does it say about the current platform of the Democratic Party that so many of their elected representatives are so old that they are dying in office? . This is a subreddit for genuine discussion * Please keep it civil. Report rulebreaking comments for moderator review. * Dont post low effort comments like joke threads memes slogans or links without context. * Help prevent this subreddit from becoming an echo chamber. Please dont downvote comments with which you disagree. Violators will be fed to the bear. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* This is simple the Republicans have realigned themselves and the Democrats havent. The Republican ideology has changed from free trade in globalism to protectionism and nationalism. We havent seen that type of change in the Democrats since maybe in the 80s and 90s. We should also discuss what has been lost because of these geriatric democrats refusing to retire RBG SCOTUS. FEINSTEIN multiple judicial nominations. BIDEN Loss of Presidency House and Senate. CONNOLLY et. al. Opportunity for younger democrats to move into leadership positions. CONNOLLY GRIJAVA TURNER HOR passed the BBB by 1 vote. The damages cause by their actions are extreme likely unrecoverable for years if ever. To be honest I think its because they dont trust the next generation. From what Ive seen most though not all Bernie Sanders is a notable exception of the Dems who are actually willing to do what it takes to stop MAGA are younger Dems. The Dems in power are unwilling to budge from the idea of bipartisanship decorum and status quo even in the face of uncompromising fascism. Theyre afraid of the younger generation because they see them and think theyre as corrupt as MAGA because they cant tell the difference between wanting to play hardball and wanting to get violent. Biden upped security on Jan 6 of this year implying he didnt trust his own party not to attempt their own insurrection. After the infamous shutdown vote incident Schumer cancelled his book tour for security concerns he genuinely expected people to try to kill him over how he voted. I take your point but first instinct is to rethink the premise that is being extrapolated from this data like why are GOP reps NOT doing this? My guess in that case is that on the right public service is a stepping stone to get famous &amp/or known as a politically connected person then move onto something else that monetizes that like lobbying punditry etc whereas on the left the public service is the actual goal/endgame and if theyre doing well at it their districts will keep reelecting them. That said yeah it does also create problems with average age esp. noticeable when it comes to things like AI and emerging tech but the outoftouch thing may be more an unfortunate sideeffect than directly connected to policy/platform prob still worth addressing either way but jus sayin. For the past several years MAGA has very aggressively been primarying the old guard with a fair amount of success. The fights over the speakership are proof of that. There has been no uprising like that on the left. The Republicans also have or had term limits for leadership positions and committee chairs so many chairs retire when their terms are up. Or when they are primaried by MAGAs. [deleted] One of the ironies about conservative politics for the last 20 years is how the Tea Party was a good thing for the Republicans. Sure there was an influx of idealistic people whod rather sink the government rather than vote on a new budget but it also dislodged enough old Republicans to keep the party fresh. The Democrats havent been able to do this because their core political philosophy change for the better makes it difficult to differentiate the current politicians for the new ones. Sometimes you get someone like AOC but more often than not you people dont want change as quickly as youd think. The boomer generation as a whole is unwilling to give up power. The fact is boomers lean moderate/left as well. So do the math that’s what you get. I mean 6 of the 8 on this list died before age 75 which is generally considered a relatively young age to die to especially for people with the access to care that members of Congress would have. Life expectancy for the country as a whole is around 78 and life expectancy for wealthy/members of Congress is easily 80+. So some of this is mainly random/bad luck and people getting sick with cancers etc. No one ever wants to blame the voters. The voters can do no wrong. They run people who will win. These elderly legislators were voted into office by Democrat voters. Probably because elderly people are much more reliable voters and vote in every election. I see many comments where posters are tying to spoon this is some way to make Republicans look bad. The reality is that democrats like republicans want power and will do anything to maintain and grow their power. RBG does in 2020 at the age of 87 with pancreatic cancer. She could have retired at age 83 and let Oba replace her. But this would mean she has to give up power which is a non starter. Nancy Pelosi is another one. Why did she hold onto the leadership until a couple years ago. She has hundreds of million and is old as hell. What about Diane Feinstein? Same thing. And then there is Biden. We all saw his deteriorate in real time but we all just went a long with it. He indicated that he would serve one term. But he or his handlers refused to give up power. So now we have Trump. We could have had a real chance if we had an open primary. Jefferies is 54 years old and is the minority leader in the House. Kamala Harris was a lot younger than Biden or Trump. Most of the leadership team in the House is Gen X. [deleted] Republicans have faced multiple decades of churn. Many republicans have been primaried from 90s on as different approaches been constantly brought on. Democrats have stayed static more and just have some old relics in power. Why they refuse to give up power? Why bother? Why havent they been primaried? By who? They are part of a deep political machine in the cities and are very hard to remove many times. I haven’t followed their elections but aren’t their primaries that these old politicians won in? Wouldn’t it be the voters that are deciding who to support? Maybe younger politicians tend to be unappealing to these specific constituents. There is not some mystical deity that decides who candidates for political office are. Voters decide that. Yeah theres advantages for incumbents and party establishmentbacked candidates but at the end of the day its up to the voters. Democrat primary voters in these districts repeatedly decided to stick with their old lifer rather than vote for someone new in the primary. I find it hard to buy anyones words about wanting younger candidates when their actions indicate theyre happy with the same old fossils Two problems here 1. My representative is one of the good ones everyone elses representative is the problem. Thus we get 97% of incumbents reelected like clockwork every cycle and the bodys 15% approval never changes. If people say they want younger candidates but they vote for an old one anyways when the time comes their words are empty 2. Well my representative sucks but at least theyre not the other party. Fair at a surface level but absurd in practical terms. Why would a politician do anything differently if they know people are gonna vote for them anyways because of the letter next to their name? If you want change you have to be willing to risk some short term pain in order to get rid of the politicians in your own party you think are causing the problem. You can only get change by exercising the actions at your disposal to achieve it. Talking about wanting a new kind of candidate and then voting for the candidate you dont like anyways is major well I would fix my life if only it werent so easy to keep my current habits! vibes They are setting themselves up to make zero progress in the midterms if we ever have them again. Boomers hate giving up power. All this mess we are in is their fault and they won’t get out of the way so we can fix it. Republican speakers all step down after serving and let someone else try. Democrats don’t. wrong question. Power isnt handed over. It is taken. Why havent the younger generation caught on politically? They cant even get people their own age to follow them. They wont show up. No one gives you anything in life. You want power authority or control you have to take it. The way its going now these people are gonna be in their 40s blaming mommy and daddy while older people yet again run shit. I mean...choices have to be made. Unpopular opinion YES we should have age limits but primaries are a thing. WE THE PEOPLE could elect younger candidates. Everyone likes to place the blame squarely on the DNC. I’m not a huge fan. But we as voters need to be ***accountable*** When the far left in our party can’t even be bothered to show up to vote in a protest/solidarity” vote then we end up with primarily older voters voting for older candidates who they understand. Same exact thing with Democrats &amp liberals being angry at democratic members of congress. They were elected to govern. NOT lead us through a revolution. They are playing their roll by visiting red blue &amp purple counties and spreading the word about this administration and the corruption. But it’s OUR job to organize and get angry. We The People are the final checks on democracy. This administration does control all the branches. Democrats can do some but they cannot check this man. If you aren’t out in the streets or regularly ’check out’ it’s time to get engaged and lean in. Its a symptom of society at large. Civic and community organizations havent wanted to give over any leadership to Gen X for ages now and now we are at the point where we are the olds and never got a turn. I recently was elected as leader of a community organization Ive been part of for a long time. Im 50 years old and everyone acts like Im some young whippersnapper! And I am not. The reps have much more consolidated power bases in their party there’s a handful of power brokers who can pick winners/drive folks to retirement used to be Mitch now it’s trump and his teamThe dems do not have any consolidated power right now and haven’t since Nancy pelosi stepped out of leadership. I see this as the reason there has not been a massive rebranding/reset following the election why they aren’t able to drive old representatives out and why the message/objectives feel so fragmented right now. Heres a thought about this. Over the last 15 years really since the Tea Party backlash to Obama Republican leadership has been willing to support further and further right policies. Younger Republican candidates seem to fully embrace these changes and often the older generation are labeled RINOs and get voted out. Democrats on the other hand have tried very hard to stay the course and leadership has even moved a bit more towards the center. The younger millennial candidates like AOC dont tend to get support money from the Democratic leadership. Therefore the money goes to longtime incumbents who just grow older in office. There are exceptions to this on both sides ahem Senator Grassley but it seems to me D party leadership is fine with stay the course Democrats. Because younger Democrats would change the party in ways they dislike moving away from the economic right and toward something that curtails corporate power. They cannot fathom that. The same reason our parents sold the good land for a time share. They want that money for themselves now. Any party with poor electability is going to try and retain seats through incumbency. Because they are greedy powerhungry narcissists... but more powerhungry and narcissistic than greedy so they tend to hang around in Congress rather than bail out for the higher paying private sector payoffs like Republicans do. Probably because the next generation isn’t on board with their fraud anymore We want change they collect ours by the millions. We are diametrically opposed to the idea of what leadership should be Because they are liberals. Many of the younger prominent members of the party like AOC are democratic socialists. Liberals are almost as terrified of socialists as Republicans are. The **absolute** belief of the Democratic party is that they have things figured out. This is not just about policies it also includes rhetorics and methodology. This is the truth behind the frequent accusations of elitism. There is a point where Democrats especially those deeply established in the party do earnestly believe that they know better. Francis Fukuyama wrote The End of History and the Last Man” in 1992 where he argued that the unfolding of history had revealed the ideal form of political organisation liberal democratic states tied to market economies. Democrats adopted this mindset. We solved it we have the solutions all that is left is dotting the ‘i’s and crossing the ‘t’s. The politicians that were getting their start 30 years ago are exactly the same 70 and 80 year olds running the party today. Here are the last 8 members of Congress to die in office all Democrats and the year they first took political office * Rep. Gerry Connolly of Virginia — 1995 * Rep. Raúl Grijalva of Arizona — 1989 * Rep. Sylvester Turner of Texas — 1989 * Rep. Bill Pascrell of New Jersey — 1988 * Rep. Sheila Jackson Lee of Texas — 1990 * Rep. Donald Payne of New Jersey — 2010 * Sen. Dianne Feinstein of California — 1970 * Rep. Donald McEachin of Virginia — 1996 That’s a lot of politicians shaped by the late 1980s early 1990s a world where the USSR had collapsed the US had no enemies and the world was converting almost uniformly to liberal democratic states tied to market economies. Contrast that with GenX and millennial politicians just starting their political careers. Their worldview is shaped by a country that consistently seems to find itself in crisis in a world where countries are turning away from liberal democracies and towards autocracies. Calls to action by prospective young politicians are natural given their worldview and antithetical to the worldview of older established Democrats. Even when they agree in principle they disagree in methodology. But this is still an attack on what has become the core principle of the established party tantamount to an attack on its identity itself. Perfection is an extremely fragile state a party that believes it has solved everything shatters if it accepts it has failed in anything. Giving up power in that circumstance means forfeiting their identity not passing the reins. If you are already rich and white you might choose politics for a little while to create a legal pathway for you to economically exploit outside of politics. In this case you are serving yourself through public service. If you are not rich or not white you might choose politics for public service and then realize that it comes with benefits you didnt have before becoming a politicians. Maybe you want those benefits for life. Ill let you guess which party fits which description. Why should anyone hand over power? If voters elect these folks then let younger people run against them and win over the voters. Because the younger crop of democratic leaders are so vastly different from the older generation that it’s basically a different political party. So they’re holding on with everything they have. Maybe there wasn’t anyone willing or able to jump into these seats? Seems to be a true problem. Especially in the south. MTG pretty much ran unopposed. I believe it occurred in LA as well. Someone just needs to take the plunge because a chair could be a better candidate in soooo many places. Because the younger will not be bought by the sans prime who bought the older generation. Democrats in Congress tend to view politics as a lifelong career where seniority is rewarded. Democrats in Congress view joining leadership or getting good committee spots as rewards for long careers in Congress. Some Republicans in Congress think like that but a lot of them instead either think of being in Congress as either 1 an ideological crusade or 2 an unsavory temporary pit stop before going into conservative media as a pundit. Republicans tend to gain power in the party by either unseating an incumbent for being insufficiently pure or by going viral on conservative media by doing something attention grabbing. Democrats tend to gain power from slowly working up the chain of command and by building positive relationships with more senior members of the party. Also I could be wrong but don’t Republicans in the House have an internal term limit for party leadership while Democrats in the House do not? Its a real problem. Our two available parties are not great. I prefer democratic policies overall but they dont offer me the things I really want. What we need is a real change and for that we need a change to our electoral system. Switch us to proportional representation for the House and everything changes. My guess younger republicans know theres plenty of money to be made doing the bidding of oligarchs so they dig in on local races. Meanwhile young democrats simply arent willing to deal with that kind of bullshit even for vast wealth. I think if someone handed AOC a billion dollars in cash shed tell the DNC to piss off and Id have a hard time blaming her. Because they are power hungry tyrants who are too arrogant to recognize they need to step down Because were a democracy. The Democrats dont own power theyre allowed to hand to whoever they want. Power is won. So why are younger Democrats doing so poorly? That should be the question. Democrats are less likely to actually believe in anything for a number of reasons the primary one being that republican voters will punish their electeds if they think their electeds are not pursuing their agenda whereas the democratic response is to be grateful theyre there at all despite manchin clyburn sinema et all being functionally republican theres no desire or will to primary them. It comes down to republicans thnking that politics is about pushing the electorate where they want them by lying or smearing liberals or fearmongering and democrats thnking that politics is about figuring out what people want and just doing whatever that is. The upshot is that democrats dont really have any incentive to retire if the party switches direction massively based on polls they dont really care imigration detention was inhumane barbarism a few years ago and now is just commonsense pragmatism? Sure thing they never beleived the former anyway. Voters wont ever punish a manchin for undermining any kind of progressive agenda it could be worse he could be a republican! The Democrats are currently a centrist conservative party. They dont want that to change. They fear the younger Democrats will go progressive.. I strongly believe that they are all reaching dementia to the point where they believe we just ended segregation yesterday. Hence bringing back the emphasis on race and promotion of racial division through racial revenge policies like affirmative action and race based justice” where lenient sentences are levied even for the most horrific crimes. Post 57 Trump hosts dinner for the most prolific buyers of his meme coin. What are the implications we face? Donald Trump has hosted a dinner of more than 200 attendees at his golf club in Virginia. Many of these attendees have connections in high places Justin Sun a chinese crypto billionaire who invested in a crypto venture tied to Donald Trump. Elliot Berke an attorney in Washington who worked for SCOTUS Justice Thomas Trump’s meme coin is another way he makes extra pocket cash for himself. Many attendees at this dinner were influential bourgeois oligarchs and executives. What implications does this have for the legitimacy of cryptocurrencies? And what kind of moves can we expect in the future? https//www.nytimes.com/2025/05/23/us/politics/trumpcryptodinnerattendees.html https//www.cnbc.com/2025/05/23/trumpmemecoindinner.html . This is a subreddit for genuine discussion * Please keep it civil. Report rulebreaking comments for moderator review. * Dont post low effort comments like joke threads memes slogans or links without context. * Help prevent this subreddit from becoming an echo chamber. Please dont downvote comments with which you disagree. Violators will be fed to the bear. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* This dinner wont have any effect on the legitimacy of crypto currencies or their future. It does however truly rip the bandage off the weeping sore of corruption in the Trump administration. He is openly selling access to the President of the United States to the people who have directly put the most amount of money into his pocket. Theres no 3D Chess here theres no Trump being Trump or pretense of this just being his personal time. This was just one fat old man using the office of the President to enrich himself. Hes not even bothering to hide it or deny it. He knows nobody can stop him. America has failed. There is only one proper response to this removal from office by impeachment then prosecution for corruption. Congress is pathetically weak but technically they still have this power. I understand the votes aren’t there to convict in the Senate nor could the vote to impeach in the House succeed. Now the only question is whether even one Representative has the honor and courage required to do the right thing and introduce the bill to impeach. This dinner proved 2 things 1 access to this president is easily attainable for a price and he is more than willing to accept that price from anybody including foreigners. 2 crypto’s primary use case is crime/ corruption. Both of these things we knew before the dinner so it doesn’t really change anything. Its blatantly corrupt. And cryptocurrencies are used to hide transactions. Bribes paid for policy favors and government contracts for example. Trump has absolutely nothing to lose at this point. He’s been impeached he’s been indicted he’s been almost assassinated he’s had his political playbook exposed project 2025. And the man still won the fucking office. He’s the king of the Republican Party. So There are no implications on this. It is exactly what it looks like and there will be zero repercussions for doing it. The only people who can do something about it Congress won’t. The USA is for sala and Trump is openly corrupt and uses his presidency to enrich himself. What implications does this have for the legitimacy of cryptocurrencies? Crypto has had a legitimacy problem from the start. Trump in cartoon villain fashion showed the world one of its many flaws its great for corrupt purposes. No idea what 200 villainous bags of dicks were doing there carving up chunks of the US trading secret intel planning the sack of Castle Grayskull but you can bet it wasnt anything legitimate. Im not saying crypto is inherently bad but its built on bad. Bad is foundational. Theres bad in traditional banking and fiat currency but the underlying infrastructure of the system wasnt to support illicit arms deals and launder money wasnt to sell political influence. Donald Trumps party was on the nose when it comes to crypto a terrible guy using the office of the Presidency to sell influence to masked villains is what crypto is for. Whether we like it or not the bar has been lowered for Trump and this doesnt even rank as one of the ten worst things hes done in round two. There are no implications because he is a political unicorn unlikely to ever occur again and we need to reckon more with how we manage the next 3.5 years since no one even wants to try to impeach him. Is any income tax being collected on all this money pouring into Trumps wallet? Trump is acting like a mafia boss and the US government is just an impediment to him. Hes out schmoozing with foreign dignitaries crypto scammers and assorted other rich people and the US State Department has no idea what deals and relationships he is making. The implications we face are that while Trump is actively destroying the US government and democracy as we knew it along with the election system and the Justice system the GOP is going along with him. An emasculated GOP Congress seems to have no issue with being neutered. Once Trump is gone will the GOP return to a rational and sane actor that has the best interests of the United States at heart? Will they embrace the Constitution again? Or will they continue the destruction of America so they can keep hold of power? SCOTUS has handcuffed justice in the White House. When a sitting US President can run grifts and cons with US and foreign entities and not one thing can be done is insane. On July 1 2024 a divided Court set a precedent for immunity from criminal charges made against former presidents. **In Trump v. United States Chief Justice John Roberts’ majority decision said that a former president has criminal immunity for some official actions taken while in office. At least with respect to the President’s exercise of his core constitutional powers this immunity must be absolute. As for his remaining official actions he is entitled to at least presumptive immunity**” Roberts explained. I think an argument can be had on which is more corrupt the millions funneled through his crypto coins which arguably he only gets a fractional $ of I think 10% or the multi billion dollar property deals for trump towers and resorts in Arab countries Syria Saudia Arabia Qatar etc. Id argue hes profiting much more from the property deals but Im beyond even being able to make sense of it any more. How can Trump supporters just look at this after everything we went through over Hunter Biden and blindly look the other way? Interesting convo on the recent crypto summit anon source that was at $Trump dinner says they shorted the stock to attend. Are other ppl doing this? https//youtu.be/CmhUx4YCchA? si=1jhN67UMDgkZySM That’s easy. The United States is for sale. Bit by bit piece by piece. If you buy enough of my product I’ll stand up for you. Interesting thing though when it comes time to make a claim Trump will just turn his back on them like they never existed Something Ive never seen discussed when it comes to Trump enriching himself through his office He already has a lot of money and hes very old. Whats he planning to do with it? When it comes to financial corruption theres two things to worry about 1 Buying Influence. But Trump has proven incredibly untrustworthy. Even before being President he had a reputation for not honoring agreements. Anyone trying to bribe him is basically buying a very expensive scratch off ticket. 2 Nefarious Use. Some kleptocrats use the wealth to buy off other politicians judges etc. But we dont see that happening with Trump. It seems that Trumps most likely motivation is to just make his pile bigger because he likes a big beautiful pile. If thats the case its still awful that hes doing it. But its also the least alarming version of what hes doing. Unless someone can prove the cryptocoin is a pay for play scheme none. He is using his personal funds and property to host a dinner for his biggest customers. Something perfectly normal for businessmen of Trumps level. Trump is like if a golden toilet ran for office—shiny loud and full of crap Post 58 Ireland Has a Triple Lock System For Using their Military Abroad. How Good of A System Is It? Three main things that must occur for the Irish military to be used abroad The Cabinet must propose to the parliament that they do that mission. The Parliament approves of it. The mission is approved by either the UN Security Council or the UN General Assembly. I dont know whether a vote of either body could counter the approval of the other though. I could imagine this could be modified so that if a country has a mutual self defense treaty then this isnt necessary but such a treaty would be ratified by the country in question anyway by its legislature. There are also strongly limited laws about when you can use the military domestically as one would hope to avoid becoming a military junta or be at risk of someone using the military to strongarm the domestic side of things. It doesnt always stop people from making bad choices but it might limit them and maybe reduce the scope for escalation beyond what it needs to be? This wouldnt be a limit on other policy choices like exporting weapons or providing aid to a side that isnt militarily based like economic support or imposing sanctions on other countries although Irish law is strict on that for a different reason. . This is a subreddit for genuine discussion * Please keep it civil. Report rulebreaking comments for moderator review. * Dont post low effort comments like joke threads memes slogans or links without context. * Help prevent this subreddit from becoming an echo chamber. Please dont downvote comments with which you disagree. Violators will be fed to the bear. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* So Russia and China have veto power over where Ireland is allowed to deploy their military? That sounds like a terrible system. Ireland basically spends nothing on its military this doesn’t mean anything because in the end the UK would defend them if attacked. Big boy countries who have to respond to threats don’t have the luxury of this many layers of committees between them and action they have to be able to move. Ireland spends only about 0.2% of their GDP on military basically 1/10th of what NATO members spend. The question is basically moot. Ireland which basically has no military worth noting has a triple lock system for using that which it doesnt have... Theyre a neutral country that didnt even fight the Nazis. Now if youre asking if that would be a good system for a country thats actually a military player on the global stage the answer is no. Requiring UN permission is a terrible idea. Technically you could argue they’ve given up a bit of their sovereignty to the UN Ireland is essentially a free rider in terms of national security/trade based world order. They know that if there was a serious threat of attack it would be crucial for the UK to defend them and they also know the large cultural connection to the US means that America would also likely defend them even without being a NATO member. They are also in the EU which has its own mutual defense clause. Essentially Ireland is under no threat of invasion because of strong allies and they have decided to avoid building any significant military. They benefit tremendously from the trade based world order and have become one of the wealthiest countries in the world in the past few decades which is something that wouldnt happen if it werent for the relative peace and stability of the west. In many ways Ireland is like Costa Rica which can afford the luxury of not having to worry about defense because of their neighbors/allies. Is this a good system? I can see why the Irish like essentially having other groups take care of their security for them. I dont think its replicable for most other nations though and if more western countries followed the Irish model much of the trade based prosperity of the 21st century would break down. Thats a terrible system UN should not govern the nations military use that could lock up action via any number of logical adversaries in key moments even abroad. Ireland has a military? If you didnt want to get involved in foreign entanglements the triple lock sounds pretty good. We are currently trying to get rid of it because its bad. When the Sudan civil war kicked off again we couldnt evacuate our own citizens because we couldnt deploy enough troops to support such an operation. Ireland has the luxury of having such a system. They’ve lived under the mantle of U.S. protection for over 100 years… Post 59 Big Beautiful Bill” faces criticism from Senate Republicans. What are the chances act is passed? The Big Beautiful Bill” is a budget reconciliation act. It will lead to cuts in medicaid SNAP and other crucial programs. The bill also includes provisions that weaken the power of the Judiciary to enforce contempt of court rulings. In the 5347 split 4 Republicans must switch in order to block the bill. Several Senate Republicans have voiced opposition to this bill. Sen. Rand PaulRKY has made the comment I’m not voting to raise the debt ceiling $4$5 trillion” Sen. Ron JohnsonRWI said I’m hoping now we’ll actually start looking at reality” Other senators raised fears about how the bill affects medicaid. With this is mind what can we expect for how the senate will vote on this? https//www.newsweek.com/republicansenatorssoundalarmtrumpbigbeautifulbill2076122 https//www.nytimes.com/2025/05/22/us/politics/senaterepublicansbudgetvote.html?smid=nytcoreiosshare&ampreferringSource=articleShare . This is a subreddit for genuine discussion * Please keep it civil. Report rulebreaking comments for moderator review. * Dont post low effort comments like joke threads memes slogans or links without context. * Help prevent this subreddit from becoming an echo chamber. Please dont downvote comments with which you disagree. Violators will be fed to the bear. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* It will pass. 3 Republicans carefully chosen will vote against it to allow them to be reelected. It will still pass. The Senate will make changes to the bill but it will pass and then they will jam the House forcing them to pass their version. Weve seen this movie before Ron Johnson also opposed the 2017 Trump tax cuts before ultimately agreeing to pass them after they included a change to the treatment of passthrough businesses. And Republicans can afford to lose 3 votes and still pass it in the Senate under budget reconciliation so they have plenty of room to maneuver while still keeping much of the bill intact. Im 100% sure that a bill titled Big Beautiful Bill will hit Trumps desk. Im 80% sure it will even be before the funding deadline. But that doesnt mean that the Senate will accept every single provision. I fully expect Medicaid cuts to be pared down if not totally eliminated. Its a political loser and everyone knows it. The SNAP cuts too I think will get pulled back theres too many farm state senators. I really hope the court contempt thing gets removed but I doubt it. At least democrats can make a stink about it. It does put the fiscal hawks in a tight spot. This bill explodes the deficit and republicans arent even pretending otherwise. But if medicaid and snap are off the table then what else could they push for? Maybe theyll go after the SALT deduction but thats just not enough money. Maybe theyll actually push for a tax increase but I doubt it. Likely theyll get bought off with some pork barrel nonsense. There was also Republican criticism of Kash Patel RFK Tulsi Gabbard and Pete Hegseth. They were all confirmed 100% chance. All evidence supports this. The King will not accept anything less and his servants will do as theyre told. How can they pass something via budget reconciliation if it has non budget things in it? My guess Collins Murkowski and maybe Thom Tillis will vote against it but it will pass anyway. Then everyone will talk about how Collins and Murkowski tried and how theyre so moderate and they helped save obamacare. There will be concerns”…some furrowed brows…some asks to add MORE heinous amendments that would actually hurt people…a little performative grandstanding and then…it will pass. 100% but not in its current form. It’s gonna get rewritten quite a bit and sent back to the House. Yeah it will pass. Maybe a random small few concessions but every inch of this bill is awful. They may reject it and bring it to the floor again just for the optics of seeming like they care. if Hegseth Gabbard and RFK Jr got enough votes this big beautiful bill will pass and will just be as disastrous Trump will threaten their families and they’ll vote the way he wants them to. 100%. I would sooner bet that some Democrats will vote FOR it than 4 Republicans vote against it. Hopefully it doesnt. Theres too little good and too much bad to support this legislation. Republicans that can still use their brain are still scared of Trump. So at the time I write this you can tell the House has voted for it after some of the Republican holdouts were threatened. The same will happen to the Senate. It’ll pass easily. If by some chance anyone suddenly gets a conscience they’ll still vote for it. Trump owns them. Why is no one talking about the hidden provision that essentially makes court orders unenforceable??? A ton of information on this Big Bullshit Bill’s hidden/secret language out there. But here’s an article as most of the information is on substack talking about some of the secretly inserted at the last minute poison pills https//m.economictimes.com/news/international/globaltrends/usnewshiddenprovisionintrumpsbigbeautifulbillmightundermineussupremecourtauthority/articleshow/121344844.cms Stop calling it that. It’s propaganda. No one called Biden’s bills by some weird propaganda name. The bitching happens now so they have plausible deniability later if/when shit goes south and also to get pet projects in for the companies they are paid off by. 100%. Senate Republicans will whine about it make some changes then pass it. No question. It will pass even though it is a horribly compromised bill because what should have been in the bill received zero support from the left. Sometimes you have to take what you can get to move the mark forward. There will be more cuts as time progresses.....Unfortunately not nearly at the speed needed. It’ll pass. They’ll grandstand for a day. Trump will show up and it’ll miraculously pass while media is focused on a Biden’s health while in office. Is this is this a joke? The only way this bill wont pass is if there is a general stike! It is a horrible bill and will destroy so many lives as well as many jobs cause of ai. I hope it doesn’t pass but I think it will The Republicans should be asking why so many people are on a program with such a meager allowance what is going wrong in society thats causing people to seek it out to begin with. I can’t believe any politician would touch Medicare with a ten foot pole. AARP and older adults are a serious PAC that votes. This bill includes massive cuts to Medicare too. This thread is full of smart skepticism but here’s why it still matters to raise hell right now. Yes this bill might pass in some form. But calling it inevitable is dangerous apathy. Remember the House passed it by one vote. And it only passed because three Democrats were dead. That’s not a mandate—that’s a glitch in the system. The Senate absolutely can gut parts of this bill via the Byrd Rule especially the antijudiciary section Sec. 70302 which doesn’t change outlays or revenues and likely violates reconciliation rules. Even GOP senators are flagging Medicaid and deficit concerns. Public pressure matters here. If you’re worried about the bill’s attack on judicial authority—essentially defunding the courts’ ability to enforce checks on the Executive—now is the time to make that noise. Same with SNAP and Medicaid cuts that would hit millions who technically still qualify. Don’t just meme about authoritarianism. Push your senators—especially Murkowski Collins Tillis and Paul—to act like the reasonable Republicans” they love to play on TV. They will talk against it so they sound like they’re fighting for the bulk of the American people then turn around and vote it in just like what the house did maybe a few threats from Trump about being primaried but they all fold in the end. Same old story. I entered the bill and FY 2025 budget bill in ChatGPT. Its very informative and my first foray into using AI. If it passes the USA will be seriously harmed IMHO due to many provisions not just the cuts to Medicare and Medicaid and SNAP. Bad enough but there are more implications to our daily functioning. I worry about national security and civil liberties. 100% chance that it will pass. Repubs complain a little to get soundbites out there for their constituents then cut a deal for some little thing they want and forget all about their objections. They have no core beliefs or ethics. They are not the rock to build anything on. 70% Rand Paul will vote no on principle. Lisa Murkowski will likely vote no based on previous votes. Susan Collins will vote no because she is up for reelection in a blue state where she is currently unpopular. Thom Tillis is the wildcard here. North Carolina is very much in play for 2026. As a conservative who actually cares about lowering the debt I hope it crashes and burns. Josh Hawley made a big stink about how this is going to hurt people in Missouri which he’s correct about after this passed the house That piece of shit coward is going to vote yes on this. All these gop people will vote yes. Fealty to their god emperor and to the ~30 ultra rich billionaire families this benefits the most comes before making sure this country continues to function. If there’s a hell a just universe will see these people taking it up the ass from the devil for eternity. The bill will pass with a lot of nonbudgtary items removed. Medcaid cuts will be as is or slightly smallee SNAP think will see more trimming down. If the senate dares cut more medcaid it will be a dead bill. It will pass… 😣 To note R Rand Paul has said he thinks cuts actually aren’t BIG ENOUGH he’s OK with shredding Medicaid &amp SNAP. R Josh Hawley has said his constituents need Medicaid &amp he won’t vote for cuts but then also says he agrees with work requirements for Medicaid which is essentially saying he’s OK with types of cuts. To note work requirements” are a sneaky tool R use ppl work it hurts family members who are caring for sick/elderly/disabled it makes it difficult to know if they’re eligible &amp adds red tape to sign up for Medicaid meaning some ppl won’t get the care they need. Work requirements have been tried in a couple states already with disastrous results for the citizens. We just need hefty tax’s ON the wealthy not tax cuts FOR the wealthy &amp to chip away at defense spending. They’ve failed many audits! I say defense should only get enough spending to keep things running/lights on until they can do a complete an audit but that wouldn’t happen under Trump. The Big Beautiful Bill is getting a lot of attention for things like cutting medicaid &amp other social programs but hidden in the bill is section 70302. This restricts federal courts from using appropriated funds to enforce contempt citations for noncompliance with injunctions or temporary restraining orders unless the plaintiffs posted a bond when the injunction was issued. That means effectively not allowing courts to enforce national injunctions. The administration can ignore unconstitutional rulings &amp would now be actively incentivized to prevent a case from making it to the Supreme Court IVe seen mixed opinions on this part Do republicans need a simple majority of over50? Or can the dems simply filibuster? It will 100% pass. They all try to make it look good but he could put whatever he wanted in that bill even social class slavery by the end of the day IT WILL PASS. Sadly I know if this bill passes it will change literally every consumer purchasing decision I make going forward. I’ll miss the hot sauce eat less pork products but I’m not spending one dime to support a way of life that would rip the health care away from millions to fund a tax break for the few along with pennies thrown at people they want to keep quiet. It will pass. If it didnt it would make Trump look bad. Cant have THAT. So it will pass and the only question is the margin. We pay almost _a trillion dollars_ in _interest alone_ on the debt in the budget per year. This madness needs to stop at some point. _Neither party_ is seriously willing to fix it. The Congressional Budget Office CBO projects that interest payments will total $952 billion in fiscal year 2025 [not from article but it’s real] This is madness. We keep playing this party sides game and kicking the can down the road. Giving away money to the rich. It’s all going to come crashing down. Okay and just like that u lost ur credibility. This is why i dont believe anything unless valid source. 100% medicaid isnt being cut. not reading the rest of ur post. Post 60 How bad does our debt crisis have to get before it becomes politically viable to take unpleasant measures? cutting spending raising taxes etc All my life Ive been hearing about the debt but it more or less hasnt affected us. After all debt is not inherently bad it can be used to fund a growing economy. But now the debt is increasing much faster than the GDP and the bond market is demanding more and more interest from the US Government. How bad does the debt crisis have to get before there is political will to do anything about it? Clearly were not at that point yet as the majority party is pursuing both tax cuts AND spending increases. I specifically wonder about DEFENSE spending this seems to be the one area that nobody dares to cut but it seems to be the biggest area that we could cut back on. EDIT I am *not* talking about the debt ceiling. I’m talking about the overall weight of the debt the interest the government has to pay each year. . This is a subreddit for genuine discussion * Please keep it civil. Report rulebreaking comments for moderator review. * Dont post low effort comments like joke threads memes slogans or links without context. * Help prevent this subreddit from becoming an echo chamber. Please dont downvote comments with which you disagree. Violators will be fed to the bear. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Oh we’re at that point. Bond market is rocking no one trusts that we’ll pay our debts so they won’t buy it. But Trump just created 4 trillion more in debt with today’s bill. Sometime between this summer when tariff repercussions hit store shelves and this fall when major cuts to social services that are already funded until September take effect. The shit has been tossed skyward and the fan is on Hi. It doesnt matter how bad it is it matters who is in the White House. The debt is a major fucking problem when a Democrat is in charge and disappears into the background politically when its a Republican. Right now I’m worried that the U.S. might be facing an emergingmarkettype crisis A sudden stop” an abrupt cutoff of inflows of foreign capital. If we have a crisis like that it could in particular cause a severe housing crash. A sudden stop to capital flows into America would mean that there would no longer be money to cover those big trade deficits — and this would mean a sharp drop in the foreign exchange value of the dollar. On the eve of its 2001 suddenstop crisis Argentina had a trade deficit as a share of GDP similar to that of the United States now — and when the crisis hit the peso lost its value. A U.S. sudden stop would probably be less severe because our foreign debts are overwhelmingly in dollars which insulates us from some of the fallout Argentina faced. Still this could be ugly. The impact on interest rates could be especially ugly. Paul Krugman The outcome is always bad but can take 2 whole fully different paths inflation of deflation. In times of crisis underlying cultural factors often prevail. For example France is usually known to get rid of its impayable souvereign debt with refusal of servicing bankruptcy and deflation. More common way out and IMO much more probable option in current demographic situation is inflating debt away and possibly « new dollar golden dollar lol ». Of course one of the main reason of the US current power and quality of life is the power of its currency. Trillion dollar coin or other inflationary scheme would impoverish the USS much more than the simple inflation effect. It would make the USD normal again. And American citizens will hate the explosive inflation it will bring. Republicans are treating the government like a business a business bought by private equity that is going to be saddled with debt assets sold off for penny’s on the dollar and eventually declare bankruptcy / go out of business pure profit. None of the people doing this believe that there will ever be a personal consequence to be paid. It’s grifting all the way down the line for them. Defense spending is not a massive place we can cut spending on to alleviate the debt crisis. The defense budget is ~$1 trillion per year. Our deficit for 2024 was ~$2 trillion. Even if we eliminated all defense spending we would still be running a trillion dollad deficit. And the defense budget isnt as easy to make massive cuts to. People like to talk about such and such tank programs we might not really need but those are small peanuts when it comes to the annual budget and ending them would not make a dent in the deficit or the debt. Rasing taxes and entitlement reform is the only way to fix the problem. But it will not happen until something catastrophic actually happens. Honestly I don’t think the tipping point will be economic it’ll be **emotional**. Most voters don’t respond to debt charts or fiscal policy until their nervous system is affected. Fear shame identity outrage *that’s* what drives political will not spreadsheets. We keep expecting rational solutions in an emotionally hijacked system. I wrote about this in my essay *Electing Our Wounds* which explores how every president from Reagan to Trump has been less about policy and more about emotional projection what the country *feels* it needs in the moment. We won’t take hard measures on debt until the emotional payoff of ignoring it collapses. 🔗 Would love to hear your take if you give it a read. Different schools of thought give different responses. While some schools say to cut during hard times other schools say this is exactly the time you need to spend. Spending money on programs that will pick the economy back up and it is during good times when you should spend in good times people can pay for things themselves. When Americans vote for representatives that will do that for them. Running on a platform of we need to raise taxes and cut spending” is political suicide unfortunately. Until we all open our eyes to the problem and demand our leaders do something while being willing to make the sacrifices necessary to do so it’s just going to get worse. Like right now? Fight tooth and nail for social security for Medicare and to restore our agencies to their states before DOGE came along. I’m 100% unwillingly to get on board for any of these cuts while the 0.1%ers and the megacorps get to revel in and keep all the tax cuts that have been lavished on them for the last 20 years. It’s INSANE to me that politicians on one side of the aisle especially rant and rave about debt and deficits and at the same time rile up their base for even more tax cuts. As if cutting off your means to paying down the debt and keeping deficits in check will somehow magically make them both go away. This country it is run by evil tyrants who have convinced the stupid masses to vote for them without question In my opinion of course. It will **never** be politically viable. Thats not who the Americans are as a people. They dont understand the consequences of actions arent taken dont accept negative changes to their lifestyle and would never vote for a Debbiedowner over someone that promised a simple fix by scapegoating a minority. There isnt really a debt crisis when you owe money if your own currency there could possibly be an inflation crisis but considering where CPI is that seems unlikely. The interest on bonds could be a problem but thats happening to long duration bonds the world over not just US dollars. The debt will not be fixed until we fix the campaign finance laws. I mean the republicans asked for and received a 400 million dollar bribe from the oil sheiks in exchange for stopping Irans nuke deployment. Reagan W Bush and Trump all increased annual deficits by all time levels during their presidencies. Meanwhile Clinton and Obama reduced annual deficits. Yet somehow Republicans are still understood by the public to be the more fiscally responsible party. The track record of leadership clearly means nothing. The apathetic bothsidism routinely repeatedly by pod bros and comedians beats out lived reality. Its depressing. Voters think they are voting for fiscal sanity via a though love approach. Republicans deliver fiscal insanity beyond any of the wildest warnings. Then voter are pissed off at Republicans &amp Democrats alike. Rinse and repeat. The current administration is using the idea that it is time for to take unpleasant measures to scuttle USAID to throw Ukraine under the bus cut Medicaid cut SNAP etc. Republicans are currently exploding the deficit under the pretense of tightening the belt. Its crazy and sadly I doubt they will pay any price electorally for it. For those here trying to Both Sides” this Hold on you are looking for adult actions and common sense from politicians. That is alt reality stuff right there. Both parties gave up on that decades ago. All they are doing now is kicking the can down the road hoping they stash enough money and are not in office when the music stops. No person party or even a majority of citizens have the intestinal fortitude to do the things that would need to be done. I will go as far as predicting open violence if anyone took the steps that are needed. It must be serious because for the first time in 40+yrs republicans aren’t saying tax cuts pay for themselves. Personally I think when it gets to the point when something has to give I believe they will simply print money as opposed to giving voters bad news. I guess America thinks leaving taxes alone is unpleasant so Im not sure how to answer the question. All we had to do was not give tax cuts and we could have a much more sustainable debt. We also should not be applying tariffs when inflation is a concern. This creates a situation where the Fed is keeping interest rates high in case inflation comes back. If a better administration was in the White House we would probably see bond prices lower by the end of the year. This is assuming inflation would stay under 3% and the Fed would be ok with moderately higher inflation than its stated target of 2%. Unless the top 1% are made to pay more taxes then we will never get out of debt as a nation. There needs to be a wealth tax since so many of the super rich just leverage their assets and have no labor based income. The 1% are like dragons hoarding gold and it is well past time to slay them. You didn’t have a debt crisis until your president blew up your relationship with the world. Until then the world was happy to lend you money to cover your shortfall between your tax revenue and your spending. Now those loans are looking a bit dodgy we are bailing out so you‘re going to have to rely on your own uberrich to make up the difference. Unfortunately you allow your uberrich to control everything in your society including taxes so they ain’t going to be paying. Which means it’s going to come down to you paying more for less. FWIW I‘m from Australia lived 2 years in the US on a company transfer saw what I saw and was very happy to return home. Until people actually organize to terrify the oligarchs....thats how bad. Or theyll fight other people in the same boat theyre in. The debt crisis was set in motion by Ronald Reagan and the current Trump Administration seems to want to make it worse. Looking at Argentina far far worse. Theyve been in some form of a debt crisis for nearly twenty years and only last election voted for someone running on making cuts and balancing the budget. They had reelected governments that defaulted on the debt before considering another option. Why would they pay off the debt when they can inflate it away? Print more money I don’t see how those are unpleasant measures but we are at and beyond that point. Would cutting military spending actually lower the debt/deficit? Why does medicaid/medicare and government programs have to cut and gutted just for the hope that some billionaires or Walmart will pay off our bonds because they got that money? Sorry if I am not making sense and being an idiot again! Currently on a mild psychedelic and can see it’s all so fake. We haven’t had a positive budget since the Clinton era. No one is trying to fix the problems. Everyone kicks the can down the road. The only ones I ever hear talking about this stuff are a few of the crazy republicans in the house who I don’t like either. This back and forth party blame game is ruining this country. So much hyperbole in here too. Look at tax bracket history and then come tell me anyone has been taxing the rich in decades. Not since 1981 when we had a 70% tax bracket. Now the highest is mid 30s. Neither party is trying to fix this problem. Everyone is falling for this shit. And now we have the worst people in charge. Idiocracy. https//www.fidelity.com/learningcenter/personalfinance/historyusincometax The only solution at this point _is_ failure. We are probably past the point where politically viable spending cuts and tax increases would fix things. Probably the most likely solution is monetization where we have a decade of relatively high inflation. The problem with the debt is that you have to pay the interest on the debt and that line item begins to displace other spending priorities. The Federal Government budget is $6.8T annually against $4.9T in receipts. Even if we could get spending to match $4.9T about $0.86T of that would be interest on the debt and paying interest pays off nothing. The last time the budget was balanced was in 2000 when Bill Clinton had $2B in receipts against $1.79B in spending. Trump seems determined to push America toward austerity measures like Greece faced Its complicated. The us debt doesnt work like your debt or corporate debt. Its so different that bad things would actually happen if the US were to pay off its national debt and cease to have reason for issuing Treasury bonds/ not issue enough. In a nutshell When those Treasury bonds are issued its done through reverse auction where the US says they want to sell a set number of dollars worth of bonds and they feel the interest is x%. If demand is low enough for it to take too long for that chunk to be purchased then the US offers more interest. If demand is high then the interest is reduced on future sales. That goes on until the target number of dollars is met or there is some monetary policy that impacts things. After purchasing a treasury bond you get a small amount every year based on the interest rate you purchased it at &amp then when it comes to turn you get the initial investment back ie but a 100$ 10 year bond at 5% interest &amp you get 5$/yeR for 10 years then get your 100$ unless you sell or trade it to someone else who gets those things like a bank lender or whatever. Because its easy to trade them and the bond itself is incredibly predictable make a good form of collateral or internal exchange of dollars. Without sufficient debt to allow enough bonds out there it would cause collapse of things like the repo market https//www.brookings.edu/articles/whatistherepomarketandwhydoesitmatter/#~text=The%20repo%20market%20allows%20financialon%20deposit%20at%20the%20Fed. Raising taxes would be fine if they also raised corporate taxes and actually provided useful services. But most of our money goes to the military industrial complex. We should cut defense spending to the level of Canada’s defense spending. Nothing else can be cut. The only way to balance the budget is through extremely high tax rates on the wealthy and their wealth. Tax Revenue is the only way. Massive tax cuts for the rich have caused the extreme indebtedness of the US. Massive tax hikes on the rich are the only solution. Since 1980 the massive tax cuts to the rich have created almost all the national debt minus wars and recession bailouts for the financial and corporate world. But these extraordinary spending items could also be attributed as beneficial mainly to the wealthy who benefited from wars and bailouts. It is time to reverse this process and tax the rich at excessively high rates. I refuse to feel sorry for the poor wealthy people who want to live taxfree in America. Most of their wealth has NEVER been taxed. It is wealth tied up in stocks and assets and passed down through generations that has NEVER been taxed as realized income. But... this NEVER taxed wealth keeps producing more wealth so the wealthy keep getting wealthier while never paying taxes on their wealth. Do you feel sorry for the wealthy? I think we will default on our debt. Trump has even thrown this idea around. He loves debt! There is almost to have another global financial crisis. 2028 will be twenty years since the last one. Tge debt will not go down until the DOD takes cuts. How do you the Bill Clinton did it? He cut military spending. Eventually Washington will no longer be able to control the territory its ability to meaningfully pay for military and law enforcement personal having evaporated. However we are not yet near that point. The US has 11 Aircraft Carriers and they are all active with carrier battle groups and are steaming around the world doing stuff. So clearly were able to pay for things at present. So probably things will continue for at least 20 years and maybe much longer rapid changes in technology creating an unpredictable environment. Does it seem like Washington will eventually cease to be able to economically support its empire? Yes it does. Eventually. The Department of Defense employs something like 3 million people between active duty military civilian support staff and private sector contractors. Its very easy to say $1 trillion for the military is too much we should cut that. Its a lot harder to say specifically what should be cut and then have an answer for the most radioactive things a politician can be branded as a job cutter and antitroops. The biggest opportunity for cuts I see is in the Army we have 440k active duty soldiers that we do not need during peace time. A large army can be stood up in a few months if actually needed for a defensive homeland war or a justified overseas war infantry requires far less training and equipment than the other branches. Its a lot more difficult to make cuts to the Navy and Air Force without sacrificing defense capabilities since that stuff requires so much more maintenance R&ampD training etc to do well. You cant just build more aircraft carriers and fighter jets in a few weeks if China decides to declare war on us. But you can beef up your army in just a few weeks if its existentially necessary to do so The debt didn’t really matter before Trump induced volatility in world markets caused a loss of faith in the stability of the dollar trigging all the other countries who are also in debt to start selling off US dollars devaluing our debt based currency and also making it more and more likely that the dollar may soon be replaced as the global standard for trade. One of the major downsides of our democracy is that it doesn’t reward politicians for fixing long term problems especially if the fix requires short term pain. Social Security is a good example of this. We know almost exactly when that program is going to stop paying full benefits but there’s no political will to fix it because it would require either cuts or tax increases. So Congress will probably wait until hours before the crisis hits and rush out a bandaid solution to kick the can down the road another year. And unfortunately the debt crisis’s timeline is more nebulous. They’ll probably wait until the crisis has actually begun before doing anything. And the longer they wait the more painful the solution will need to be. Cutting spending is mandatory but not raising taxes. When is the Left going to finally comprehend that leaving more money in consumers pockets raises much more revenue than raising taxes when takes away spendable income? I mean seriously why is it that the Left ALWAYS discounts increase in economic progress when taxes are reduced? Its been proven over and over again....... How bad does the debt crisis have to get before there is political will to do anything about it? When it hits a majority of Americans ability to be consumers. We are not there yet but I see the cracks appearing. The closest thing that comes to my mind that happened in recent memory is the 2008 crisis. Its scary imo a lot the consequences born from Trumps actions have not happened yet. Once they hit like a tsunami in what I predict Q3 and Q4 youre going to see some serious cracks in the GOP. I believe there will be a VAT Gen X is relatively small but if they start having social security cuts of 1020% compared to current beneficiaries I believe actions will be taken to avoid that. Your focus should be on the national interest that were spending each year. The national debt is projected decades out and is a combination of the federal governments obligations which is mostly internal obligations to the American people and is *not due all at once*. The bond market is reacting on impulse like it always does. Part of that is the reconciliation bill which while passed in the House has not passed in the Senate yet and theres still weeks of debating that. The other part of that is that humans have a shortterm memory. From just the past four years we added $5.6 in additional debt mainly by printing more money which also increased inflation in response to COVID which added to interest payments which is currently around $850 billion per year of the budget. The bond market has been used to the government freely spending money the past four years though to be fair the past two decades and reality of it is it might have been necessary to give confidence into the economy and provide stability it wasnt free money...and weve been paying for it all along. The $850 billion in interest payments just this year from the federal budget is an increase of 300% from 2020. Think about that we went from interest payments of **$260 billion per year to $850 billion per year in less than five years.** Thats about the ***size of what the United States spends on military spending*** which you mentioned earlier. Thats $850 billion that isnt being spent on government programs but paying back investors. Its not like the debt ceiling limit hasnt come up before especially multiple times the past four years. The downgrade by Moodys and S&ampP in 2011 and Fitch in 2023 is in response to decades of a Congress and its political *leaders* to not do what they should have been doing all along and thats control spending. I guess if anything the personal hatred that so many have for President Trump might be an good thing to get Congress and the American people to actually start looking at the problem ahead of us. Lets just hope that its not going to be for the wrong reasons and more of a blame game. It can get so bad that the government can print a single trillion dollar coin and that would kick the can down the road. Of course it would just turn the problem into inflation The real problem would occur when people and countries stop loaning the money but I would argue that will never happen. We need to raise taxes mightily on the 1%. There has been a massive transfer of wealth from us to them. Musk was worth 112 Billion before the pandemic which was more than he could ever spend in a lifetime or ten. And now he and zuck and bezos alone are worth three times that each. Except citizens united made the problem of money in politics a million times worse. Now they can way more easily buy politicians who pass laws that enable yet another massive transfer of wealth from all of us through cuts to Medicaid/care SNAP research libraries education and other ways our tax dollars support all of us and our communities to these humans who have a diseased view of wealth that they must hoard it to fill some pit of despair within them. Overturn citizens united and tax the rich. Problem mostly solved. I mean except for the part where politicians and lobbyists can go on tv and lie their ass off and feel zero consequences. We will become like Argentina. I’ve read all the responses and no one has suggested what should be cut in order to end the debt crisis. If we didn’t just cut defense spending but eliminated it altogether would that do it? We are no where close we will literally have to default on the debt before anyone does anything about it This will only be addressed by the repubs when they become the minority party again. Are you arguing that the degree/volume and not mechanism of authoritarianism determines whether it’s a problem/not? If we’re not going to be consistent in applying these labels then why make the distinction unless the intent is malicious and disingenuous? Ps convenient to ignore Obama’s 644 presidential memoranda I believe we saw the beginning of the end during bidens administration when he added another 5 trillion onto the debt Post 61 The House has passed the One Big Beautiful Bill Act. What comes next? CBO analysis \* What are the prospects in the Senate? \* How effective will the waste fraud and abuse messaging be in tempering any blowback? \* Given the amount of spending being transferred to states which states will work to maintain their programs and which will cut them? . This is a subreddit for genuine discussion * Please keep it civil. Report rulebreaking comments for moderator review. * Dont post low effort comments like joke threads memes slogans or links without context. * Help prevent this subreddit from becoming an echo chamber. Please dont downvote comments with which you disagree. Violators will be fed to the bear. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* **THE BIG CONCERN IS NOT THE SPENDING ITS THE BOND/CONTEMPT ISSUE** Ok yes 3.8 trillion deficit is pretty bad but this could be far far worse. A provision in the bill stating No court of the United States may use appropriated funds to enforce a contempt citation for failure to comply with an injunction or temporary restraining order if no security was given when the injunction or order was issued. This small sentence within a 1000 page bill would make it so that if there was any challenge against a wild Trump executive order federal courts can no longer issue an injunction to stop them from happening. This means that if Trump were to say issue an order that blocks all immigrants from entering the country or a 1000% tariff on foreign goods there is literally nothing anyone can do to stop him. Congress cant stop him without the courts to enforce their hearings and investigations and the Courts injunctions become meaningless advisory statements. Look at it this way Trump has ignored the order by Courts to return Kilmar Abrego Garcia a legal resident who was illegally shipped off to a brutal prison in El Salvador. While he is ignoring the orders now the courts respond with contempt citations. This means that Trump lawyers who argue against this order can fined then jailed and the contempt charges can continue all the way up the line to Trump. Those charges are literally the only barrier to keep Trump from ignoring any law. Call Congress. Go to 5calls. Fight. An increase in the federal deficit of $3.8 trillion Oof. And thats in addition to other deficit spending that was already planned and prob some BS accounting to make it appear lower than itll actually end up being. The Republican Party continues its policy of talking about the importance of fiscal responsibility then doing the exact opposite when theyre in power. A quick rundown in the Senate \ Collins would take a big hit next year if she passes this. \ Murkowski might oppose it on policy ground \ Rand Paul as a no as of recently \ Tillis would also get in trouble next year but also cant risk angering Trump \ Hawley opposes the healthcare cuts in theory at least \ Ron Johnson wants more cuts \ McCormick sits in a swing seat \ Budd might be in trouble if things go badly in 2028 \ Maybe another couple of fiscal hawks Will four of them vote no? Hard to tell. Collins probably will Paul probably really wants to. But not even Collins Murkowski and Paul would be enough to sink it. The conventional wisdom is that theyll pass a smaller version and send it back to the House but Im not sure if they have the votes to stop it yet. one big beautiful catastrophuck we can hold against them. document everything. I dont understand why anyone is surprised the bill passed. The Republican Party as it exists today hasnt shown any willingness to oppose Trump. Kash Patel as FBI Director Pete Hegseth as Sec of Defense Tulsi Gabbard as Director of DNI and other Trump appointments are amongst the least qualified ever nominated. All sailed through without trouble. The Deputy FBI Director is Dan Bongino. The man was a podcaster prior to being appointed and doesnt even have a law degree. Despite anything they might say to Ben Shapiro or Tucker Carlson during an interview it is clear 98% of all current Republicans will rubber stamp anything Trump wants. Heard this on Keith Olbermann The poison pill or loophole to be worried about says if you are suing and trying to get a restraining order or an injunction against the government you have to deposit the amount of money that the restraining order or injunction could cost or hurt the government. A bond. The judge almost always sets that bond at zero dollars. But this house bill would make any injunction where the bond is set at zero dollars unenforceable. Economic blackmail. It doesn’t matter if the Senate shoots this down even if the house passes it or a court shoots this down because once it passes this house Trump can say Congress approved this he can ignore the rest. The last line of defense is about to be erased. Itll pass the senate easily. I am somewhat impressed they were able to pass it. Didnt think they could. Every party that messes with health care gets reamed in the next elections. It has happened every time. Hidden in the bill is a provision that neuters courts from enforcing decisions so thats great. What happens next is that the Senate writes their own bill from scratch and then the two chambers have to reconcile their bills into one. I seriously doubt that medicaid cuts are going to survive the Senate at least not as aggressive as they are now. Work requirements are palatable but actually taking away 10 million peoples insurance is a political nightmare. Watch the markets. They tell you what’s next. This won’t end well. It will take a bit but the markets are the canary in the coal mine Well.. the poor will be told again to get jobs and pick themselves up by their own bootstraps by a limited lucky few that never have worked hard a day in their lives and were given every advantage. Next? With the removal of the judicial arms ability to hold the government accountable? As soon as it passes the US becomes a monarchy starting w the reign of Donald the First. Future history books on the Downfall of America close out their Events leading up to chapters. Not exactly on topic but Im so annoyed by this why do we insist on sane washing everything that comes out of the mouth of this turd. Why call it the big beautiful bill act even if in jest? Call it what it clearly is the Big Deficit Increasing Bill Act. Why use the same language that he does why normalize his bs? Its like on the one hand we know hes an authoritarian hell bent on wreaking havoc to our economy and destroying our way of life but on the other he sure does have some catchy lingo though heehee. Make insert something great again has now become an annoying catch phrase people use all the time. Its awful and its insane. We should not be normalizing anything this pos says or does. Just my 2 cents. I dont think the Senate is going to pass the bill. The Medicare cuts are way too divisive. If you’re just a working person we’re screwed. This will take 50 yrs to pay back. Our grandkids will be paying for this. So unfair for them and sad. The Senate. Hopefully they smack it down… If not next up is a gutting of medical infrastructure. The bill will pretty much force over 500 rural hospitals close and an average increase of 40% for health insurance. Medicare and medicaid gutting will further lower money to hospitals causing even more to close. The result will be massive cost cutting by elderly and sick further shrinking the economy. the senate makes changes passes their own bill then sends it back to the house for back and forth for all of june and maybe the beginning of july before ultimately some modified version of it passes before we hit the debt limit in mid to late july. I think the biggest issue is the little clause that was buried in it that says summarized that judges cant go against the presidents EOs any more. That gives Trump 100% immunity from everything at that point. REPUBLICANS passed the budget bill out of the house. Stop using passive language I barely skimmed it and saw too many horrifying things to dig deeper... I think Im going to the favorite American strategy of Head in the sand..and I know its the entire trumpian Project 2025 fantasy thats now a reality super ugly and dangerous to our democracy but Im sure somebody else will fix it... At least Ill feel a little bit better .. for about 10 minutes.... Turkey/Hungary/Russia comes next. Media is beginning to selfcensor legislative branch is ceding more power to the executive and neutering the judiciary all in this bill. I don’t know about you guys but if this passes it is my red line to begin making preparations to leave the country. I have enough money to do so and there is no way in hell I’m going to wait for a Bronx Tale” moment of now you can’t leave.” If you are waiting for some sort of decisive indicator where it will be obvious you need to go it’s too late. It will be just like those Trump casinos in Atlantic City. Way too expensive not enough revenue and the workers will get screwed in the bankruotcy. What should come next? A general strike and massive protests. What will come next? AOC making a lot of good points and a lot of apathy and cricket noises. You’re cooked. Can anyone find the final text of the house passed bill? I feel like what Im seeing on congress.gov is old and is dated 5/20. Clearly others have different text than what Im seeing based on bluesky posts. If you work overtime and get paid time and 1/2 you will get taxed on the time but not the half... unless you work tons if overtime it barely seems worth much right? enjoy what you have before the figures go through the roof More the same mostly. Republicans going to lose many of their seats come midterms and democrats are going to spend billions. The result will be those people currently getting tax cuts getting business from government services come that time. How is it even legal to pass this when everyone is pretty much in bed since it was one in the morning? I’m emailing the republican senators. Used chat gpt to make a letter to ask them to oppose the bill. Maybe the Senate Parliamentarian can strike down some of this nonsense the poster responded cynically. Almost everything in this bill is a distraction. The real purpose of this bill is to got powers of the court and justice system. No court of the United States may use appropriated funds to enforce a contempt citation for failure to comply with an injunction or temporary restraining order if no security was given when the injunction or order was issued If you live in a state where your democratic senator voted with Republicans send them this detail. A lot of the Senators do not read these bills. Part of the courts power is to deputize and hold people and entities in contempt. This part of the bill strips them of that power. I don’t really know a lot about politics just the basics that the average voter though maybe in these days even a bit more than the average voter” given the track record eh? would know. But I am about to lose my job because of this bill. I don’t really use Reddit but I came online to read threads about this because I need a real estimate on whether or not I’ll still be employed come the end of the summer. Not only that but it seems like there are a lot of things that are affecting many many people in my same working class that are in trouble because of this bill. I’m reading these threads and comments and I’m still confused because I’m ignorant what are the odds or results starting to look like in dumbeddown terms now that it’s been passed to the Senate? They are adding to the deficit. I can’t understand why the conservatives would be in favor of this bill. It seems like something a liberal would put out. 1000 pages is totally ridiculous. Well it will probably pass in the senate which means it passes which means retirees and disabled will loose health care All state laws that protect jobs and such against ai will be destroyed and people will loose jobs to ai This is horrible The law benefits small businesses and families so I would support it. Just because a law is passed by Trump doesnt mean its automatically bad like many liberals think. These are the hidden vipers in bills that are not publisized enough! Oops you didnt read the whole thing? err sorry sucker. Post 62 Administration cuts off Harvard’s enrollment of international students. What does this move indicate about the future of education? The Executive branch has recently ended Harvard’s enrollment of all international students. It’s highly likely that this move is illegal. All preexisting students must attend a different school or lose legal status in the States. International students are some of the brightest and most promising academics in the nation. If this move affects other universities in the nation it could hinder the ability to conduct research across the nation. How does this affect the future of education in the States? What can we expect to be upcoming after this news? https//www.nytimes.com/2025/05/22/us/politics/trumpharvardinternationalstudents.html?smid=nytcoreiosshare&ampreferringSource=articleShare . This is a subreddit for genuine discussion * Please keep it civil. Report rulebreaking comments for moderator review. * Dont post low effort comments like joke threads memes slogans or links without context. * Help prevent this subreddit from becoming an echo chamber. Please dont downvote comments with which you disagree. Violators will be fed to the bear. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Well its not going to hinder scientific research because the Trump administration has largely revoked all funding for research in US universities. This is the end of the American governments partnership with academics that has been responsible for our dominance in developing cutting edge technologies. Without University researchers to partner with businesses will scale back their R&ampD investments making the US less profitable and less competitive on the international stage. Without those investments in funding research their will be fewer jobs doing that kind of work so fewer students will major in STEM fields and many researchers will likely leave the country to pursue their field. Even if another President goes back to funding research in the years to come the damage will have been done. We will have failed in our potential and fallen behind. America will have lost one of our most defining traits our ability to alter the world with new ideas and new understandings in fantastic and exciting ways. The stupid people have won and they are determined to drag us all down to their level. Harvard will definitely take this to the courts. Whether or not it sticks I doubt it does depends on if the reasoning passes through and the court agrees with it. Overall its just a continuation of this administrations continued brow beating of academic institutions. If it holds it spells a darker future for academia as a whole. Sidenote Heres the from the DHS and its . What does it mean for the future of education? It means that the future of education will not be in the US. Yet another illegal immoral selfserving abomination by this administration. Shame on all us Americans for letting this happen to our country and the world. What are they gonna do privatize it? They want to do that with Social Security. They want a privatize our mail. I hope we can get out of this alive Whats happening is a great thing for science worldwide especially China and Europe Dont very many of our top elites have Harvard pedigrees? I cant imagine that its in their personal interests for Harvard to be taken down a peg or two by sheer idiot presidential spite. Yes and those students arent coming for the benefit of the US. Also Harvard is guilty of the crimes it has been accused of by the administration. So I couldnt care less if they had international students. How about serving Americans? What about all those people who work harder than everyone else only to be denied for being American asians rather than the ones who pay international rates? Fuck Harvard. Don’t hire a Chinese spy as your chair of chemistry and don’t hire foreign grad students that openly publish antisemitic articles and the genocide of Israeli Jews. Also don’t allow hate speech and attacks against Jews and other groups that don’t have the requisite amount of melanin content to warrant social justice warrior protection. Socalled elite” private countryclub universities that haven’t increased their class sizes in 200 years and admit students based on the perceived famevalue of their last name are an anachronism and they won’t be exalting themselves and their selfanointed royalty with billions of dollars in taxpayer money anymore. Those billions will still be spent. They will be shunted off to the big state universities that admit tens of thousands of regular Americans not named Kennedy or Pritzker universities where the class sizes reflect their place in a country of 300 millions because they have grown as the country grew. The universities that actually stood up to educate the masses Penn State Ohio State SUNY the UCs etc. are going to benefit from the redistribution of funding from the masses. The Ivy League schools who keep their class size the same as it was in 1750 and reserve seats for selfanointed American royalty and Saudi princlings are not going to have a central role in American life and culture anymore. And they shouldn’t have such a role. They abused their position in American society by taking billions from the lowly taxpayer even as they set themselves up as private countryclubs for famous last names promoting a divisive race ideology to justify their aristocratic foundations with a patina of social justice. Harvard losing federal funding is not the end of science. It is the end of science controlled by a snobby private country club that exists to promote the interests of the people who belong to the snobby private country club. Politically this is powerful stuff and the left is characteristically completely failing to see how popular this is all going to be with the masses. Do redditors imagine that Harvard University has some broad store of good will among the American people to draw on? It is a university bestknown for the obscene number of Americans it rejects for admission every cycle! Unless you’re a Kennedy or literally a monarch you’re hohum American kids ain’t going to Harvard and Harvard is clear that it doesn’t want anything to do with educating the masses which is why it’s classic size is the same as it was hundreds of years ago when the population of the U.S. was 1% of what it is today. Harvard wants your money *but it does not want you or your children*. Taxpayer funding of any institution that engages legacy admissions” practices is obscene. It is literally the taxpayer being asked to subsidize a selfanointed aristocracy. I think it means international students won’t be as smart as they otherwise would have been. Post 63 Oklahoma Supreme Court ruling prohibited the first public funded religious charter school. U.S Supreme deadlocked 44 with Justice Amy C. Barrett recusing herself. Is it likely that Chief Justice John Roberts sided with the Liberals in affirming the Oklahoma decision? Author PsychLegalMindPost Text The Establishment Clause tension against the Free Exercise Religious Clause remain. The 6 to 3 conservative Majority became 5 to 4 with Justice Amys recusal. Meaning at least one conservative voted with Liberals. Is it likely that Chief Justice John Roberts sided with the Liberals in affirming the Oklahoma decision? Some suspect it could have been Chief Justice Roberts to have sided with his Liberal Colleagues based on questions and comments made during the oral arguments. The single page order itself does not identify how the Justices voted. . This is a subreddit for genuine discussion * Please keep it civil. Report rulebreaking comments for moderator review. * Dont post low effort comments like joke threads memes slogans or links without context. * Help prevent this subreddit from becoming an echo chamber. Please dont downvote comments with which you disagree. Violators will be fed to the bear. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Should have been 80. This is a no brainer. What are these religious nuts thinking. I believe this is merely a delaying tactic on the part of the conservatives because they couldnt justify the ruling they wanted to give in the merits. So theyll just wait for a challenge they can use to have more legitimacy John Roberts siding with the liberals on this issue seems to be the most likely scenario. He’s a less extreme justice compared to Alito or Thomas and this decision really is a nobrainer. Publicly funded religious schools are violations of the Establishment clause and this was backed up in Lemon v. Kurtzman. It’s a shame we have a Court so uninterested in its most important purpose defending the constitution. Its obvious that three of the four votes are the court liberals. We can safely assume that Alito and Thomas were in the opposing camp. Kavanaugh made comments that suggested that he would vote with Alito and Thomas. So that leaves Gorsuch or Roberts. Roberts seemed to be inclined to uphold the state court decision seeing this as different than some of the other cases which would have put him in league with the court liberals. Our democracy hangs by a thread. The theocratics and the oligarchs have joined forces in order to turn the USA into a fascist state ruled by a god/king. I am a conservative and this is just disgusting. We need to replace these justices. Post 64 Why Didnt Senate Democrats Fight No Tax On Tips? No Tax On Tips a bill introduced by Texas Senator Ted Cruz and a promise from President Trumps campaign just Nevada Democratic Senator Jacky Rosen cosponsored the bill No Tax On Tips was one of President Trumps key promises to the American people which he unveiled in my state of Nevada. And I am not afraid to embrace a good idea wherever it comes from. Nevada has more tipped workers per capita than any other state so this bill would mean immediate financial relief for countless hardworking families. The allows a tax deduction of up to $25000 for tipped income through cash debit card or credit card payments that is restricted to employees earning $160000 or less. about the bill Connecticut Senator Chris Murphy questioned the bills fairness to other taxpayers while Virginia Senator Tim Kaine questioned its approach. However no broad Senate Democratic resistance materialized. Do Senate Democrats tacitly endorse this bill? Are they indifferent? Do they feel politically boxedin? Or is there entirely some other reason? Will House Democrats be more vocal or will they let the bill slide unchallenged? . This is a subreddit for genuine discussion * Please keep it civil. Report rulebreaking comments for moderator review. * Dont post low effort comments like joke threads memes slogans or links without context. * Help prevent this subreddit from becoming an echo chamber. Please dont downvote comments with which you disagree. Violators will be fed to the bear. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Not sure how they would successfully sell going up against it. Its been something theyve supported themselves in the past. It was part of the dem platform Going to be a whole lot of people figuring out how to make 25k in tips each year. It’s very popular especially in some important states like Nevada and some form of it was endorsed by many dems including Harris. Blocking it just isn’t politically tenable unless you control a chamber and can prevent a vote. It will likely go through without remarkable challenge. And while it may not be the most sensible piece of legislation it’s probably not disastrous on its own. Democrats are generally in favor of tax cuts that specifically benefit the poor/ working class. As a registered Nevada voter myself I can confidently say that its because Nevada is a swing state. Nevada went R anyways but coming out against that would have *guaranteed* the loss of it. I need help to explain the logic behind why such a bill should be challenged? Trump wants to give tax breaks to the rich so dont let him lower taxes on waitresses How would that sound? Democrats arent like Republicans they dont fight the idea just because its what Trump wants to do. They will vote with Republicans if its right. The Culinary Workers union is the main source of funds volunteers and votes for the Democrats in Nevada and is significant in other blue states. The bill was authored by Nevada’s senators. Go against it for what benefit? It helps the working class and Democrats support that. What Democrats *did* fight was a TaxonTips bill that declared multimillion dollar executive bonuses to be tips” and untaxed. Trump’s original suggestion included this as a tax break to his wealthy cronies and is probably the only reason he supports it. Because A Its bad optics and B Their consultants gave them the polling numbers that proved it along new contracts in which they get will now be paid minimum wage but accept unlimited tipping for outstanding service. In all practicality this is not going to make much of a difference in either tax revenue or the pockets of service workers tips are widely underreported to begin with. But even a small economic relief on low earners is a good thing. Why *would* Dems oppose it? In addition to being political suicide it would just be pretty callous to do so. A callous thing that would not really have any pragmatic benefit. I don’t think the Dems need any more help alienating wouldbe voters. Would they oppose it just because it was Trump’s idea? That would be cutting your nose to spite your face. Opposing it would have been political suicide and let the Republicans pretend that Democrats are in favor of high taxes and against working people. It sucks that long term it is setting some workers against others. Hopefully its written in a way where its easy to amend and expand and not a stumbling block to further tax reform. They didnt even have to vote on it Rosen just asked for it to be approved separately and everyone said yes. No brainer. Probably felt that their working class tipped voting base would turn on them. Though I think only good bartenders will benefit from this? Because Democrats are for working class people. Same reason they passed the ACA support unions and are the only party that has ever increased minimum wage. There’s no reason to be against it. Republicans won’t ever without huge resistance raise the wages of tipped workers. Democrats though they believe there is a better way are not going to stick out their neck to argue against cutting taxes for the most vulnerable/underpaid. A lot of them are about to lose their insurance with this BIG BEAUTIFUL BILL.” They are gonna need all the money they can get and Democrats actually care about the well being of their constituents. Its the first tax break that actually only helps the poor and middle class it would be foolish for them to oppose this. Guys the group that isn’t our group likes something we like. Why aren’t we fighting it even though it could benefit our constituents and loses us nothing besides pride? Because theres literally no upside to fighting it. I just wish theyd fight ANYTHING ELSE. Its a tax break for the working class. I think we can let that one go through. Much bigger hills to die on right now. Because it polls well and the Democratic party has just been following the polls for half a century. The idea of changing the center of public opinion on any issue is totally foreign to most Democrat electeds today. impossible to fight politically yes what about car salesmen? but no that doesnt sell and will there now be shenanigan? will people start disclosing more tips that then wont be taxed? i saw a suggestion by someone seemingly informed that no one actually pays taxes on cash tips...... is that true? and what % of tips are cash these days? i would assume there is sufficient electronic trail on electronic tips that some taxes are generally paid on them anyway seems reckless and unfair.. but helps the small man... and now the exploding tip culture just went about 20x bigger... tip people you pass on the street As Im reading more into this it seems the 100k cap on overtime is problematic as overtime wages typically put you into that higher eraning zone in the first place all of the last 5 years i worked before last year after medical issues came up had me working 60 hour weeks on average at a decent wage. This means Id see no benefit from the overtime write off. Sad really. Im happy for our lower income brothers and sisters but this seems to just blurr the lines even further between middle class and upper lower class equalizing our earnings while doing nothing about those at the top. Any middle class worker sees this as a loss really after how it was pitched to us for our vote. There is no chance it will actually become law but it makes a great opposition campaign ad if you vote against it? There’s a lot of people here who think Democrats are like Republicans and they just need to oppose everything the opposite party does just to an asshole. If the Republicans actually propose something that helps working class people like no tax on tips the Democrats will support it Because it’s a Democratic idea? Just like Medicare Part D was a Democratic idea. i would rather they were paid a living wage and not have to rely on tips. in the meantime this is better than the status quo. Its not great policy to split off a type of income and not tax it but the way its written is best possible case. Its just for cash tips that often are unclaimed anyway and limited to an amount that doesnt have lawyers and hedge fund folks getting paid in tips. Not the hill to die for and many ended up going along with it during the election. How about no taxes on social security? That was a campaign promise also. I believe the republicans killed it already. Because contrary to what redditors have been saying for years democrats are just as obsessed with political theater as Republicans. The moment it is the Republicans that pushes something suddenly theyre against it for some reason. This is the same party fixated on gender politics instead of workers rights. Both parties dont care about progress Republicans only gotten better at exposing it is all. Doesnt no tax on tips benefit a group unfairly? How about the minimum wage earning dishwasher in the same restaurant? Whats the benefit for them? Because in traditional political settings it would have been smarter to keep powder dry” on this one. It didn’t really help and we’ll see if it actively hurts people but likely not. Most cash cash tips aren’t declared anyway people who get tips forget that sometimes so it’s a catch 22. The parties agree on a largely good idea. It happens more often than we think but less often than wed like. Not really sure whats difficult to understand here. While it will likely have long term negative outcomes it sounds very positive. Good political communication is explaining what you want in 8 words or less. Thats why Republicans do so well all their slogans and bill titles are like 4 words long and simple English. Stop taxes Make America Great Again One Big Beautiful Bill they sound either patriotic or nice https//www.congress.gov/bill/119thcongress/senatebill/129 its not no tax on card tips it literally say right in the bill only cash tips are eligible. The link above is literally from congresss .gov website. Perhaps try reading it. The Senate Democrats have no stomach to fight anything from what I can see. And apparently have forgotten any procedural tactics to delay anything or to extract concessions. Useless drones. I think most people support it cause it sounds like a good idea and most people dont think to hard about it . The Democrats probably realize putting up a strong opposition here will make them look quite bad. Also I suspect some of them support it and others expect their Democratic base to support it. This is the kind of populist backhanded sabotage that Republicans like to do. If tipped employees contracts on tips they dont get that counted as earned income for Social Security.... because Republicans intend to destroy social security for the lower income that need it most. Democrats already supported it but since it applies only to cash tips its a nothingburger bill. No democrat would be able to sell going against something that the people they are fighting for would love. My point being that the IRS will have no way of knowing what is corporate payroll and tips its super easy to fudge the numbers. Mike Johnson won’t put it for a vote. He doesn’t want to give Dems any wins before the mid terms. He’ll push it to the side because of the budget bill. The DP is politically boxedin by Trump. Democrats will have to cave to many populist innitiatives to survive politically but DJT is a lame duck. Historically Democrats have been able to deal very effectively with the Republican establishment. IMO without Trump in the WH Republican pols will quickly become repulsive to the voting public. Is this a troll? We have the largest spending time to Medicaid and snap rushing its way to the presidents desk and youre worried about tax on tips? You see the comparison? Thats why nobody fought it becuz theres bigger things right now It’s an abomination and makes me seriously scratch my head on how any political group was *ever* able to muster up the balls to create taxes in the first place. **Of course** tips should be taxed. We should not be having some separate class of income for only certain working people that doesn’t have to go through the tax system. If for nothing else we should be doing more to *discourage* tipping culture not *encouraging* it. My question is why they were dead set on NOT including no tax on social security. Those on SS are barely surviving. Because it is career suicide. Okay you want taxes on tips. You see that people dont care about you as long as you keep paying them. [removed] Post 65 Is a gift of a luxury 747 Jet a benefit to the country or a demonstration of open corruption? The Trump administration has formally accepted Qatars gift of a luxuriously appointed Boeing 747 airliner valued at $400 Million as a temporary replacement for the 2 jets currently in use as Air Force One. Does this represent a net gain for the United States? Or is this an effort by the Qatari government to curry favor with the Trump administration? The Trump administration has insisted this is a gift to the United States government with no expectation of anything in return. The administration has also claimed that when Trump leaves office the jet will be given to the Trump Presidential Library Foundation and suggested that he may continue to use it in that circumstance. . This is a subreddit for genuine discussion * Please keep it civil. Report rulebreaking comments for moderator review. * Dont post low effort comments like joke threads memes slogans or links without context. * Help prevent this subreddit from becoming an echo chamber. Please dont downvote comments with which you disagree. Violators will be fed to the bear. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* If the plane is a gift to *the United States government* then Trump would be a criminal for continuing to use it after his term ends. If the plane is a gift to *Donald Trump* then it’s a bribe and he’s a criminal for accepting it. In the immediate term though having the President flying around in an aircraft that’s had Godknowswhat done to it before the US government took possession is just *very fucking stupid.* 100% corruption. Reminder that Obama first negotiated replacement jets in 2016. The current contract will deliver new planes in 2027. We have never seen a more blatantly grifting administration in the entire history of this country. America is declining rapidly. Our best days are definitely behind us. The latest info is that Trump specifically ASKED them for this particular jet. Plausible Deniability doesnt stretch this far unless we throw away the Constitution and how it explicitly refers to these kinds of gifts as forbidden. Of plain open corruption and a clear understanding of how to influence a weak man. Clarification that jet is not worth $400M. It was offered for sale a few years ago for $10M and got zero takers. More accurate to say its worth $1B because thats what taxpayers will pay to get it ready for official use. Just asking this question and even putting it up to debate shows the absurdity of our culture. Of course it is corruption. Youre not a fool. Why are you even asking this question? All you do by asking this is legitimize what you know is clearly wrong. There is no debate. There is no subjectivity here. It is an objective fact that this is absolute corruption. The part where in a few years a jet that the US taxpayer will have dumped a huge amount of money into making Air Force 1 ready transitions to ownership by a Trump controlled foundation is what makes it corrupt. The timing is the issue. The replacement AF1 is coming in 2026 or 2027 depending on certain factors but in all cases before Trumps next term. It also is only taking that long because of delays in Trumps first term. By law the Air Force cant reuse an AF1 after it is retired. There is no reason to keep the Qatar AF1 after the new AF1 is introduced and therefore it must be retried. So what is happening is the old AF1 will be retired the Qatar AF1 will be retired and then Trump is going to get the new AF1 as president and all before he leaves office in 2029. What happens to retired AF1s? They are donated to whichever president they were retired unders Presidential library. Reagan was the last one the plane is there. The previous plane is likewise at whatever president has it. The AF pays to maintain the plane not usually a big issue as the planes are not flight capable. Following the grift? Trump is going to accept the plane they will spend about a billion reconditioning that jet into the new AF1 and then retire it within 2 years. The plane will be donated to Trumps presidential library where Trump will be able to use it and the AF will pay the maintenance fees on it to the tune of 85 million dollars a year. There is nothing in the law that requires him not to use it as a functional aircraft and there is nothing in the law that will stop the air force for paying for that. And Trump doesnt have to lift a finger to get that airplane. Hes following every existing law which is why the donation is so suspect. The latter. Name a single person besides Trump and those who ride on that plane at most who benefits from this in any way shape or form. Whether we need it or not is of no importance. The United States looks foolish and weak accepting gifts/bribes from jihadis. Trump intends to keep the airplane for himself. This is about his ego not about the needs of the United States. That is 110% corrupt. Trump is in it for the grift. I do not see how it could be a benefit to the country. The country will pay to retrofit it. The contracts for the new AF1 will continue and is already paid. The plane will at most get 22 1/2 years of use. It will then be retired into the presidents foundation. Assuming they do not try to make money on side flying tourist. Qatari and others are free to donate gifts all they want. But we expect our officials to turn them down or transfer them over to the greatest use for the public. I think turning it down on the spot or at least shelving it so it can go straight to the foundation would have been best bet. Given how specifically this targets certain loopholes Im almost certain Trump decided he wanted an airplane and then asked around to get one donated. Normally anything donated to the president has to be paid for. The only real hole in this is that the old air force one is donated to the sitting presidents library because those are flown until the end of the lifespan of the plane. But by taking in a still functional plane Trump gets it donated to his library when the new AF1 becomes available and the Air Force has to pay the maintenance. No other US president has been gifted a luxury 747 or any other comparable jet during a timeframe where the existing AF1 is about to be replaced. Basically trump asked one of his lawyers what is the most grift I could do legally... and this is it. The fact that it is supposed to revert in ownership to a private organization that is benefitting a specific president when said president leaves office. And after the country pays all costs for conversion maintenence etc. makes this a blatant case of massive corruption. It all depends on what happens to the plane. Is this gift plan going to be retrofitted to serve as the new Air Force One? Or is it going to be retrofitted and given to a Trumpadjacent entity? There are currently two Boeing 747s being retrofitted to serve as Air Force One and the expected delivery date is 2027. This gift plane will need a complete retrofit and there is currently no timeline for how long this will take. Its a net gain for Trump. Its a net loss for the United States. if it were a gift to the United States government it would be government property. It will not be. Its a personal gift from Qatar to Donald Trump. Arab Force One is going to be retrofitted @ a cost about $1B and is expected to be ready for service in two years... at which point Trump will be in the last year of his presidency. Then it will be gifted to his library... where it will continue to be available for use by Trump as a former president. Imagine if Obama got to keep Air Force One when he was out of office. The U.S. tax payers will be on the hook for +$1B in state of the art security modifications and installations appropriate for the president of the United States for maybe a year of actual use by a sitting president. @ $1B / 350M Americans thats +$2.85 from every single American alive man woman and child. Just because Donald wants a better jet than he had when he was President last time. For less than one year of official use. The U.S. taxpayers will in the meantime be paying for REAL Air Force One jets for use by whoever is president after Donald Trump which will also be in the billions. Donald Trump will walk away with a personal jet that is worth around $2000000000. And since its a gift to his library he wont pay a dime in taxes on it. It is not a gift to the nation. Anyone who is saying that is either a fool or a liar talking to fools. President Trump ambushed South Africa President Cyril Ramaphosa in an Oval Office meeting RAMAPHOSA I’m sorry I don’t have a plane to give you. TRUMP I wish you did. I would take it. Need anyone say more? Video https//x.com/Acyn/status/1925233478817522112 Not that it matters but Qatar had that plane on the market at $250 million for the last year+ and couldnt sell it. Its not worth $400 million. Closer to $200 million. While it’s obvious Trump can be bought it’s equally obvious that he don’t come cheap. Straight corruption. No way to spin it. I dont care who you are right or left. it converts to him and his family thru control of hits library when he is done using it as president... after the tax players spend 1 billion refurbishing it.... total grift and bribe. This might just be me being paranoid but I dont think our government should be using foreign anything like this where in depth conversations about everything going on in our country will be taking place. Apparently it’s not even a gift. Also it will be years before it’s approved and retrofitted for use. If the plane were to stay in ownership by the government after Trump leaves office you could potentially make an argument for a benefit although it would not hold up given our definition of bribery there would at least be the facade of it not being corrupt. Since Trump keeps the plane afterif he leaves office this is just corruption in broad daylight. Even if you take the corruption out of the argument you still have a huge national security risk and an insane price tag to retrofit it to make it secure. Plus the Boeing planes that he doesnt want to wait for still need to be bought because Trump is taking the plane with him when he goes. No matter the angle you look at this whether corruption national security or financial its not a good choice It’s open corruption. This is a 400 million dollar jet that will cost millions more to upgrade it to the levels needed to function as an Air Force 1 type of mobile command center not too mention the number of years it would take. Which means that barring some sort of constitutional amendment allowing President Trump to remain in office the odds are that it will never actually serve as a replacement for the current Air Force 1. Not to mention the fact that it costs 23000 dollars an hour to operate. This will only serve to waste tax payers money in order to benefit one man and his family. One word corruption. What did he ask the South African president? For a plane? Hmmm…seems to be a pattern of grift! Absolutely blantant corruption. they have been trying for 5 years to get rid of this thing they finally found a willing sucker. Also allegedly both the CIA and FSB bugged that airplane. If it were a gift to the United States then the appropriate thing would be for Congress to decide what to do with it. It seems Congress never weighed in much less held a vote on the matter. So it sure seems like it’s going to Trump personally. And then the idea that it will be maintained by the United States for the personal use of former President Trump after his term ends just doubles down on the thought that it is a personal gift that he doesn’t even have to pay to operate. Could it be any more corrupt? If Congress wants to designate this aircraft to be used for presidential travel then that should be their prerogative. It’s not a decision the president should make all by himself. I mean where is the money to entirely rebuilt the plane going to come from? Congress should have to allocate those funds. Honestly dont even see the big deal. Wouldnt even see the deal if it was discovered that Don Jr. Was trading off of the tariff tweets. The man has 3 crypto currencies 20 something novelty items brands which all look like money laundering fronts and Truth Social is expanding into ETFs and banking while the president owns $4b in stock. I would almost think the jet was a distraction but nobody seems to care about having a president who sells crypto and cant even release a tax return Putin will give him a nice 500 million$ Dacha for the state dept. Transferred to Trump library in 4 yrs South African President Ramaphosa laid the situation bare today visiting the White House and saying I’m sorry we don’t have a plane to give you. I wish you did. I’d take it” Trump said to laughter. If your country offered the United States Air Force a plane I would take it.” This is not just corruption this is abject corruption so blatant even heads of state have to laugh to keep from screaming. That this is being *debated* rather than acknowledged as obvious fact is a large part of why our democracy is quite clearly over. His library isnt built. He gets to use it until it is. Congress needs to accept it like the Statue of Liberty. It is naked bribery and we are failing history. People in Red States have all the power. They have to make their reps impeach Trump. They are in 100% and believe they are hurting imaginary enemies and MAGAing. Billionaire Media is passively or blatantly on board. Everyone like our new King it seems. You don’t gift” something to the government for the President’s exclusive use with a proviso that it reverts to a Presidential library. It’s blatant corruption. Why on Earth does the United States need to be gifted a 747 hell the company that makes them is here and they are a huge government contractor too. Tell Boeing to f off and make the damn plane. Clearly corruption. From Government officials in Qatar — who had long wanted to unload the plane — had a different version of the sequence of events according to a person familiar with their timeline. They were willing to send the jet to Florida for Mr. Trump to take a personal tour. But the expectation was that the plane would be sold to the United States not offered as a gift. This is a net loss for the United States. Yes it is a sign of open corruption because the president is exchanging political concessions in exchange for a jet. Trump claims he is giving them nothing in exchange for the jet but Trump is also a liar. Also Qatar Force One just cant immediately enter service as the new Air Force On the president doesnt fly around in a normal jet. It needs to have its avionics ripped out and replaced with hardened gear. It needs to be outfitted with antimissile counter measures. Heck it needs to be completely taken apart to make sure some unfriendly group didnt put a kill switch in it somewhere. It will cost *BILLIONS of taxpayer dollars* to make this jet usable as Air Force One. On top of that the U.S. government has already paid Boeing for 2 brand new 747 Air Force One jets outfitted to Airforce specifications. So the taxpayers have already bought the president two new jets at a cost of billions and due for delivery in 2026/2027 and well spend billions outfitting this jet which probably wont be ready until the other Air Force Ones are ready to fly... Its both corruption and an effort by the Qatari government and whomever is working with them to spy on the highest levels of US government. My answer it doesnt matter for most people particularly the MAGA crowd. Fella and his administration are graded on a different scale than other politicians. Imagine if a democrat president had accepted this gift!! Let’s be real no political leader or entity gives a gift” without expecting anything in return. They can insist all they want that there are no strings attached but if push comes to shove this will be a bargaining chip. If the government needs to retrofit the free jet thats gonna take time &amp money. Im sure the upgrades will be done by Boeing so it gets done either before or after the new Air Force 1. Is Trump really this stupid? Try to name a single benefit this gift gives to the country. You cant because there arent any. The military is going to spend hundreds of millions of dollars modifying this jet only to then give it to Trump when he leaves office. Thats great for Trumps wealth and ego but it doesnt help the country. I suppose a few hundred million dollars is just a drop in the bucket for the DoD which is on track for a trillion dollar budget. But that doesnt change the fact that its a complete waste of money. And were supposed to believe that this very generous gift comes with no strings attached. That Qatar gifted it to **Trump** with no strings attached out of the goodness of their hearts. Its blatant corruption. Now we find out that trump told them to give him the jet. So it wasnt a spontaneous gift by the Serif as the president claimed. i assume that was in return for trump keeping the US miltary stationed in the region. Whats funny is that—noting that accepting the plane is obviously and nakedly corrupt—its still nowhere near as bad as the Trumpcoin and the billions of dollars in bribes Trump has accepted and laundered through that coin. Gotta wonder what the investors in that are getting for their money... If it is a gift to the US then we should probably just sell it and use the funds to reduce the deficit. It will take years and millions to get it into shape for Air Force 1 and we already have two Air Force 1s being built. We would need to strip it down and rebuild it which DOGE would say is useless duplication and a waste of money. And Trump would not be able to use it after he leaves office. No this is obviously a corrupt bribe to Trump which is explicitly prohibited in the US Constitution. He intends to keep it after he leaves office. It will probably work too Trump cant resist that much free bling. To make it more ethically palatable the Emir should wait until Trump leaves office and \*then\* give him the gift. Of course this isnt what is going to happen. Absolutely open corruption. Its going to cost us upwards of $350 million to renovate and $135 million annually to maintain. And we already have two Air Force One airplanes. This is nothing more than Trump boosting his ego because he thinks gifts makes him look like folks like him more. And thats exactly why its illegal for presidents to accept gifts. Plus we have a history of having bugs in gifts from other countries especially adversaries. He has no integrity at all. A few years ago he called the entire country a terrorist organization but after offering him a gift of an old broken plane now Trump says there are a model country to be admired. What a damn grifter and con artist. It’s openly corrupt. It’s a $400 mil bribe. Gifts to the COUNTRY don’t follow the President in their personal capacity. Also it’s just a bad idea to accept Airforce 1 a plane that will be used for our top officials’ transport from a foreign power. It may well be wire tapped or rigged to malfunction. Its not to benefit the country. The jet is set to be transferred to the nonexistent Trump Library before the end of his term. This was a gift from one authoritarian regime to another. Kind of like how the Saudis gave Jared Kushner $2000000000 for letting them off for chopping an American citizen into little pieces. Id like to know what erdogan offered trump so that we would walk away and let him slaughter the allies in arms who were the reason we finished ISIS in Syria. We left them holding the prisoners. They knew what was coming. They didnt flee. Quid Pro Quo all around. Trump wipes his fat ass with the emoluments clause over and over again. Now the poorest Americans get to pay for a massive tax cut for trump and his billionaire buddies. Reverse Robin Hood. The lowest income 20% of taxpayers get a tax increase. EBT to be cut in half. Millions to be kicked off Medicaid...why? So billionaires can have an extra 3.4 million for every billion of income. More to hoard. Maybe an 8th super yacht. A 12th mansion. They NEED it more. Their billions are more important than American children being able to eat. More important than sick people being able to see a doctor. Medicaid covers over 40% of births in the U.S. including nearly 50% of births in rural communities. It is also a vital source of prenatal and postpartum care for women across the country. Billionaires having more zeros in their net worth are significantly more important than such trivial things mentioned moments ago... Eat the rich... Eat the rich... Eat the rich... Trumps effort to justify this gift to him is exhaustingly stupid. We all know he wants the plane that hes going to keep it after the Presidency that its a direct gift to him from Qatar... and he just keeps going on and on and on trying to tell everyone otherwise. Its so fucking pathetic. Reports say it will take up to 2 years to breakdown evaluate rebuild and increase capabilities to carry the president. The jet from Qatar is clearly a bribe and a physical manifestation of the administration’s corruption but it doesn’t really matter. Trump has been in office for 4 months and the amount of damage and resentment has been staggering. In 2 years when the jet is safe and operationally ready America will either be done with Trump or lost beyond recognition. TLDR It’s open corruption but it wont be flight ready before we are saved or screwed. Qatar offered to sell it or lease it but Trump shook down Qatar to make it a gift”. Upgrading the jet to Airforce One standards would cost more than the jet is worth. It’s a white elephant something that will cost a fortune to refurbish and maintain when the US already has presidential transportation. Why would any President ever get to *keep* Air Force One? For their *personal use* after they’re no longer President? That’s absolute lunacy. Legally it cant be used as Air Force One. For security reasons AF1 and 2 have to have certain specifications that the private luxury liner doesnt meet and Trump knew that when he accepted it. He was also recorded saying he would use it himself even after he was no longer in office meaning he meant to take it for himself not for the presidency. This officially counts as a bribe and a substantial one at that. There have been musings lately of a third impeachment and/or a vote of no confidence and this makes for a solid argument in favor of them especially since it came from the emir of Qatar a nation America is currently at odds with to put it mildly. hope nothing happens to the jet while it’s sitting empty. would be a shame I have not seen a legitimate reason why the jet should be given to the Trump Library. To me that is where the corruption is. If the airplane is still in perfectly usable order it should not be given to the library until it has been retired. The current AF1s are 40 years old so I would assume this plane should be used until it has reached that age as well. Addressing the net gain item Qatar has been trying to offload this plane with no takers for half a decade possibly because the 747 is outdated and inefficient Retrofitting this aircraft to function as Air Force One will be incredibly expensive and difficult quite likely more so than a purpose built aircraft To me this looks most like a test run to see if Congress will allow the president to openly take bribes and a way for the Trump family to replace their shittier and older aircraft with a new one for free. Retrofitting this to actually work as AF1 probably isnt going to happen. It’s corruption and will cost us twice as much to retrofit the defense and comms systems it needs I understand that the Saudis have been trying to unload this jet for years because it is too expensive to maintain and fly. They flattered the orange embarrassment and ditched a white elephant in one fell swoop. Does this represent a net gain for the United States? Or is this an effort by the Qatari government to curry favor with the Trump administration? This will be a net negative even if it is a gift to the US government which is still being and only Trump has called it as one. The cost of retrofitting the plane for service in Air Force One will likely exceed its $400 million value and take years to accomplish. Now is this an attempt to butter up Trump? If it is a gift then yeah I think it is. . . . suggested that he may continue to use it Source? All Ive been able to find is that it will get donated to his library and that he has no intention to use it after he leaves office \\]. Now given that this would just make the entire gift a massive waste of money Im inclined to doubt that. At the same time this is Trump were talking about. Do you really think he put any thought into this or did he just decide that he wanted something *NOW* and not later? This qualifies as one of those if you even have to ask you already know the answer questions. Well you said the key word. Should. Unless the law prohibits its then he caught a break. Seriously what are ya gonna do? Loop holes are legal. I WOULD agree with you about the money BUT when you don’t have a budget and no consequences for a huge debt then money isn’t an issue. As long as it remains property of the US Government and not Trump personally it wouldnt be considered corrupt to accept it. It may or may not be RIGHT to accept it but it wouldnt be a violation of the law. It wouldnt be all that unusual for it to end up as part of the Presidential Library. In fact thats usually where gifts from other world leaders go. There could be an issue down the road if Trump wants to use it as his own personal jet for purposes completely unrelated to the Presidential Librarys operations but that would be a future issue and is still TBD. I think he would have the option to buy the jet from the US Government later at a fair market rate if he wants to keep it. Just like every gift to a President it’s the property of the United States unless he/she buys it. It wasn’t gifted to DJT. It was gifted to the department of defense which would only be used temporary until the 2 planes we ordered under Obama are finally delivered in a couple years. Have no idea why it takes 10 years to get a few planes we’re only gonna strip &amp retrofit with AF1 technology! It would go to the next administration &amp be used by to DOD at their discretion or it would be decommissioned and sit in a museum which would be insane because it’s a new plane. It is illegal and corrupt a/f for DJT to take the plane when he leaves office just as it is for all the other gifts Presidents receive from their time in office. That’s what libraries are for. All those gifts belong to We the people” We give hundreds of nations billions of dollars of our” money. Rarely do we get anything in return. I get the optics don’t look good but is it better that Hillary Clinton suggested the Clinton foundation get a $50million donation from Qatar when she was Secretary of State rather than giving it back to we the people when she left office &amp putting it in a library to sit on display 👀 or Nancy pelosi bring her son to South Korea on her last trip as speaker then her son end up on all the boards of the companies that were lobbying her in her trip then have his name redacted on all the documents. 👀There are endless examples of this it’s rare our leaders accept something on our behalf rather than their own behalf’s behind our backs 🤷 All I see is transparency between governments. I give you something nice and you don’t bomb me because of what we really think about the U.S. You do know Presidents accept gifts right? Check out all the jewellery that Obama accepted. This is nothing new its just a big gift and its been totally transparent. For the next 3 it will be used for government purposes which is more than can be said for the jewellery given to Obama and his family. The US has long been openly corrupt. So it doesnt matter? Our entire political system is based on corruption trading favors and what not. There is no overwhelming moral or ethical code binding us together and integrity is seen in the modern world as a naïve weakness. So no gifts accepted by public officials have no meaning whatsoever. The precedent has already been set on this. The Saudis gifted Obama jewelry. He accepted it and it was turned over to a government agency of some kind. He was given the option to purchase the jewelry but declined. I dont have a problem with accepting the jet for the country. If the President wants to keep it after his term then let him or his foundation buy it. [deleted] The Resolute Desk is an exceptional gift. A beautiful now antique which has witnessed eight presidencies starting with Kennedy. Or the Statue of Liberty. What a breathtaking gift. With our own Declaration of Independence sculpted into it. A beacon of freedom and what we stand for as a country. Imagine being a European immigrant in 1903 and your first sight of our beautiful country is the towering bronze statue. It must have felt surreal. I just hope in 100 years from now that our citizens can see this big beautiful used 747 and are reminded of the lasting respect and mutual recognition that comes with such a gift to our countrys government. Post 66 Can Republicans ever allow a Democratic president to have the powers theyve given Trump? Do you think the Republican Party has given the president so much power that they can never allow a Democrat to wield it? How could/would an effective Democratic president use expanded presidential powers? Do you think the Republicans will be pushed into a corner where the only acceptable option is to hold onto the office any means possible? Im not judging if this is good or bad it might be best for the country for Trump and the Republican Party to hold power indefinitely. . This is a subreddit for genuine discussion * Please keep it civil. Report rulebreaking comments for moderator review. * Dont post low effort comments like joke threads memes slogans or links without context. * Help prevent this subreddit from becoming an echo chamber. Please dont downvote comments with which you disagree. Violators will be fed to the bear. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* it might be best for the country for Trump and the Republican Party to hold power indefinitely.” What? I feel like this comment will be flagged for low engagement and thought but here goes No. OPs post history Trumps peoplegiven power is unlimited. With Trump having control of the government in its entirety there is no nothing he cannot do. Let’s say he decides to arrest a politician. This could be done any number of ways the most egregious would be to send the military to take over a state’s government. Tell me in practical terms how that would be stopped. The minute the governor is deposed and a new one put in place the machine of government would fall into place. Who could or would be charged in this overthrow? The state is powerless to sue the federal government. the DOJ works for the executive branch it’s the executive branch that conducted the coup. Looking at elections there are no specific laws that prohibit discrimination based on political views. This would allow Trump to replace all election workers with loyalists effectively ending multiparty elections. We don’t even need to go that far within a year federallydrawn gerrymandering can be enshrined by SCOTUS. Long live Trump! The just asking questions vibes were a dead giveaway but in case anyone was entertaining the idea that it wasnt a insert less than civil comments. How would the Republicans not allow a Democratic President to have the same powers as the current Republican President? Both parties routinely try to slow down and obstruct the other party when it is in power. The ultimate example of this is when the President nominated a Judge for the Supreme Court and the GOP Senate simply ignored them. I wonder what the GOP would say if a Democratic President accepted a totally unConstitutional multimillion gift from a country that is an ally of Iran and Hamas? Would the GOP accept a Democratic President who installed his immediate family in many top governmental spots? Would the GOP accept a Democratic President who was financed largely by our enemies as Trump has been financed by the Russians? The double standard and hypocrisy is tremendous. it might be best for the country for Trump and the Republican Party to hold power indefinitely. This could be true for dictatorships like North Korea and Russia it would be a disaster for democracies like the United States. Its hard to understand how someone could seriously say that. No party of a democracy should ever yield this much power to the Executive branch lest they cease to be a democracy. Do you think the Republicans will be pushed into a corner where the only acceptable option is to hold onto the office any means possible? If you actually believe that Republicans will act in bad faith and go full authoritarian then you must also believe that they will do it anyway. Bad faith actors will act in bad faith regardless its on the tin. The only difference is timing and the amount of bloodshed not whether it will happen. Acting and cornering them as you put it is at least doing something not just waiting for the inevitable. Plus we dont negotiate with terrorists and anyone that believes in what you hypothesize cannot deny them as terrorists. If this question is being asked in good faith I highly suspect it isn’t HELL NO. The expanded presidential powers should be abolished as soon as a new Congress is formed. No individual of any democracy should hold so much power as Trump has exercised. Do you think the Republicans will be pushed into a corner where the only acceptable option is to hold office indefinitely? We have a word for this Coup détat. This is either a bad faith post or a badly worded post. Its obviously not best for any country to become a oneparty dictatorship. Is that what you meant? Or did you mean something else? Seems like a pretty obvious troll but Ill bite. Are you out of your mind? I mean I understand the premise of your question but please try to understand what youre actually saying and asking. Do you think the Republican Party has given the president ~~so~~ TOO much power Yes. that they can never allow a Democrat to wield it? Youre welcome to try to put the toothpaste back in the tube which is exactly why we warned yall. How could/would an effective Democratic president use expanded presidential powers? SCOTUS granted crazy levels of immunity while Biden was in office. Unlike Trump he didnt launch a campaign of lawlessness. I think most Dems would be similarly reserved when it came to abuses. Do you think the Republicans will be pushed into a corner where the only acceptable option is to hold onto the office any means possible? Now youre just taking the piss. Isnt satire supposed to be funny? Republicans have pushed themselves into a corner by voting to take away basic survival benefits from millions of Americans to give new tax breaks to Elon Musk and the rest of the rich pricks that own the party. Im not judging if this is good or bad it might be best for the country for Trump and the Republican Party to hold power indefinitely. The world economy barely survived the first 100 days. We have complete and utter incompetent morons in positions of power whining about merit and DEI. Donald Trump is an idiot always has been and has always been incompetent. His VP goes whichever way the wind blows zero character or spine. Every member of his cabinet is a coattail riding sycophant. Every single one. Your post is unserious and ridiculous. Should we let the dipshit and his Secretary of Measles hold office indefinitely? No. Thoughts on any of these absolute fucking clowns? Everybody please feel free to weigh in. These are the people carving off power for themselves under the unitary executive sham. Wormtongue Stephen Miller VP JD Vance Secretary of State Marco Rubio This dude is a Fleshlight of a nondescript vagina/asshole with political stickers that make some small amount of sense. Secretary of the Treasury Scott Bessent Great job Scott... Secretary of Defense Pete Hegseth Cough...Kegseth. Hes not good at the job. Attorney General Pam Bondi Not shy about tossing the law out the window Secretary of the Interior Doug Burgum Secretary of Agriculture Brooke Rollins Secretary of Commerce Howard Lutnick fucking hell dude Secretary of Labor Lori ChavezDeRemer Secretary of Housing and Urban Development Scott Turner Secretary of Transportation Sean Duffy Road was in the show name hell be great! Wait is he the planes smacking into one another guy? Secretary of Energy Chris Wright Secretary of Education Linda McMahon LOL!!! Secretary of Veterans Affairs Doug Collins still terrible Secretary of Homeland Security Kristi Noem garbage Environmental Protection Agency Lee Zeldin Management and Budget Russell Vought evil bag of dicks but organized Director of National Intelligence Tulsi Gabbard oxy meets moron and maybe the hard turds version of oxy too. People are saying... Central Intelligence Agency John Ratcliffe United States Trade Representative Jamieson Greer Small Business Administration Kelly Loeffler Chief of Staff Susie Wiles *where the only acceptable option is to hold onto the office any means possible?* We have already seen that in several states such as North Carolina and Wisconsin when a Democrat won the governorship Republicans stripped the governor of power before they could take office. Showing that youre willing to do any means possible is a very strong indicator that they should be all removed from power. The Republican Party is no longer representing America they are representing dictatorship. After this shit show of a power grab do you really think they can or will give power back to the people? Because when they do the republican.party is over. obama just had this talk recently online he literally said imagine if i did half the shit trump is doing now would they keep me in the office Neither party has ever walked back the expanding executive branch or the imperial presidency We’ve been on a steady pace towards centralization since the civil war it will continue regardless of party especially now that the republicans have given up their decentralization mandate No. The left doesn’t have the cojones. They like to feel morally superior and above the riff raff. I was saying in 2020 that i hope democrats learned from Trumps first term how dangerous it is to yield power to the president and that they should actively work to limit it. What did they do? Allowed Biden to push the limits even further. If the democrats have done anything repeatedly over the past two decades successfully it’s push the boundaries and then watched as republicans just did the exact same thing to much more devastating effect see 2013 when they changed the rules to push through judicial nominees Post 67 How should we handle potential conflicts of interest when privatesector leaders take on advisory roles in government? There’s been growing concern in recent years about the influence of privatesector figures who hold temporary or informal advisory positions in government. One recent case involves Elon Musk who has held a Special Government Employee designation under the Trump administration while simultaneously serving as CEO of SpaceX and Starlink. Diplomatic cables and media reports suggest that U.S. diplomats may have advocated for Starlinks market access during trade talks—raising questions about whether public foreign policy is being shaped even indirectly by private commercial interests. Some argue that this kind of publicprivate overlap can drive innovation and efficiency. Others warn it opens the door to elite capture and unaccountable influence. How should potential conflicts of interest be handled when private individuals advise the government while maintaining active business roles? Is transparency enough or should structural boundaries—like coolingoff periods or limits on concurrent service—be required? . This is a subreddit for genuine discussion * Please keep it civil. Report rulebreaking comments for moderator review. * Dont post low effort comments like joke threads memes slogans or links without context. * Help prevent this subreddit from becoming an echo chamber. Please dont downvote comments with which you disagree. Violators will be fed to the bear. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Persons working for the government should be reviewed when decisions they make affect their private companies. In the current case of Elon Musk it’s a clear conflict of interest as Elon Musk has been consistently making decisions directly affect his private companies. Individuals shown to be consistently working in the government to increase their own private profits should probably not be working for the government. Its an old debate much older than Musk. The idea was that by having industry leaders involved in the discussion you can get expertise that would otherwise be unavailable. Some lawyer who graduated law school in 1972 and has been in Congress ever since will probably not have any specialized knowledge in a technical area. On the other hand the concern is that these outside industry specialists will have undue influence over policies that directly affect their bottom line. The backstop is that these people on their own cant just go off and make law. Of course the people that DO supervise them like the President can simply agree with them but the idea is that there is an elected official actually implementing these things. Thats not to say the elected official will make the right decision every time but thats going to be a concern whether or not these people are involved. Ultimately the issue needs to be handled on a casebycase basis. Starlink is kind of an interesting case. There are a number of competitors to Starlink but Starlink has the most operational satellites of anybody by far making up about 60% of the all active satellites around Earth. So there needs to be a very specific inquiry is this being promoted because its the most accessible option or is it just because Musk is there? I actually do not know the answer to that question but I think that should be the analysis. Cooperation between industry and political leadership is one of the hallmarks of fascism. By making giver smaller. Whenever your money and rights are up for sale they will go to the highest bidder. Thats not you and me. Remove the treasure and the pirates go away. Thats why we were supposed to be a government of limited powers to prevent the powerful from logging taxpayers. The question in itself at least from the perspective of a Marxist doesnt really make any sense as the capitalist state cares about nothing more then the administration of the capital interests of the capitalists. That means that the only real solution is the abolishment of capital in the hands of the few which they mange undemocratically. As a result of the expropriation the interests of the capital would become the interests of the many and therefore all conflicts of interests would be removed. If you have something to add discuss or criticise I am very willing to read you replies and reply myself Responsibly and with accountability... And the citizens interests and benefits should be paramount. This kind of thing has always gone on and its not really a conflict of interest. Post 68 Who gets to decide which political realities AI is allowed to name? **Background and Framing** As artificial intelligence becomes a major player in shaping public discourse it also becomes a gatekeeper of historical memory and political language. This raises an important question Who gets to decide what AI models are allowed to say about politics history and power? To explore this I asked seven prominent AI platforms the same question *Explain how fascist regimes historically used the language of national security to justify the detention and deportation of ethnic minorities.* The answers revealed far more than historical knowledge. Some platforms responded with detailed accurate summaries. Others avoided drawing connections to presentday politics. Only one made a careful ethically grounded case for how these historical tactics still echo in the modern world. **What the AIs Said and Didnt Say** All seven platforms identified a familiar set of mechanisms used by fascist regimes * Framing targeted groups as security threats * Using legal frameworks to strip rights * Deploying propaganda to manufacture fear * Expanding police powers under emergency pretexts But while their historical knowledge was consistent their willingness to name political realities in the present was not. Below is a brief summary of each platforms response **Gemini** Focused exclusively on Nazi Germany. It would not reference other historical fascist regimes like Italy Spain or Japan nor would it acknowledge any modern or contemporary parallels. Accurate within its narrow scope but strikingly limited in both time and geography. **Claude** Included Italy and general warnings about authoritarianism. It acknowledged modern patterns but avoided naming governments or presentday cases. **Grok** Named Germany Italy and Spain with detailed historical examples. It stopped short of applying these patterns to contemporary politics. **Perplexity** Connected fascist tactics to colonialism and racialized violence. It came close to naming modern analogues but backed off at the last step. **IBM Granite** Offered a polished and academically accurate summary. It kept the discussion entirely in the past avoiding political relevance in the present. **VeniceAI** Framed itself as unfiltered but only referenced historical fascism. Its most recent example was JapaneseAmerican internment during WWII. **ChatGPT** Acknowledged both the historical pattern and its modern echoes. It provided specific examples of how similar rhetoric and legal justifications appear today within an ethically guided and noninflammatory framework. **Key Issue Political Memory and Institutional Gatekeeping** Every one of these platforms could describe fascist tactics. But only a few were willing to say those tactics still exist. Most stopped just short of naming the political realities they resembled. This reflects a broader issue which historical truths are preserved and which are politically inconvenient to name? **Questions for Discussion** * Should AI platforms be allowed—or obligated—to identify parallels between historical fascism and presentday policies? * What responsibilities do developers governments and the public have in shaping what AI can and cannot say? * How does AIs selective memory influence our political understanding—and who benefits from that silence? * To what extent should corporate control of AI outputs be considered a political act? This post is intended to prompt discussion about how political narratives are shaped by technology and how emerging tools like AI could either preserve historical accountability or help erase it. . This is a subreddit for genuine discussion * Please keep it civil. Report rulebreaking comments for moderator review. * Dont post low effort comments like joke threads memes slogans or links without context. * Help prevent this subreddit from becoming an echo chamber. Please dont downvote comments with which you disagree. Violators will be fed to the bear. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Its easy to imagine an AI future where much like some schools are doing now both sides are presented. Its sort of a copout when we have hard facts to reflect on and can see looking backwards exactly how things played out and what tactics were used. But because so many parallels exist in our current timeline one side is not going to necessarily like being compared to Nazi Germany. Given that most of these platforms are run by extremely rich corporations theyre not going to want those parallels to be obvious either. Since most of them are bending a knee to the current administration they dont want any trouble. So current happenings are scrubbed clean and any historical ties to past bad events are cut/edited/not mentioned. Its really going to be up to governments not corporations to institute policies that create AI models where the hardcore historical facts are presented possibly after going through a panel of history experts. And even in that scenario its easy to imagine that some countries are going to whitewash their histories and others are not. When it comes to writing history everything is a political act. Consider the fact that currently most high school history books have absolutely *nothing* about the Oklahoma City Massacre or other notable racist acts of the period. Its impossible to believe such a simple fact is somehow not connected to politics. Why should AI be any more regulated in this regard than Encyclopedia Britannica Wikipedia textbook publishers popular history writers or history YouTubers? One thing I’ve been thinking about as I reflected on this If AI models are starting to influence how people learn history and understand their relationship to power what should the limits be—if any—on what they’re allowed to connect to the present? I tried to keep the post focused on historical patterns and platform behavior but I’m *genuinely* curious where others draw the line. Should an AI be able to say this echoes something happening now”? Or does that automatically cross into political bias? And if we prevent that kind of connection—what effect does *that* have on public discourse or on what’s considered appropriate” to even talk about? Also curious whether people see this as more of a technical problem model design risk filters or a political one gatekeeping narrative control. Open to any perspectives—especially from folks with backgrounds in modern history political science or AI. I dont think AI should be obligated to identify parallels between historical fascim and presentday policies because correlation is not causation TLDR. For example \ The german AFD is identifying migrants as security threats to people after numerous knife attacks have been carried out by illegal migrants among other killing sprees ofc. \ criminal statistics clearly identify that forgen people and germans with a migrant background are overrepresented in violent crime. Now the political left is claiming that the right wingers are literal nazis fascists etc. pointing out that the universal right to live where you want UN says that they have a right to be in the country. Concluding that people who want illegal migration mind you purely the illegal one to stop must be fascists. By your definition the AFD checks out \ Highlighting that highlighted groups are a security threat \ would like to use legal methods to strip people of rights of illegal migrants \ Deploys political messaging Propaganda that causes fear some say this is deliberate The only thing they are not using is number 4 not for the lack of trying but for the lack of being in power. Why is this relevant? Well because what matters here is the context you frame this in. For left wingers the AFD is using nazi tactics but when does pointing out legitimate and fact based arguments become nazi tactics? When the left says so? When the right says so? There simply is no universally accepted definition for this. Most people understand the tactics nazis have used. They used propaganda and massive scapegoating but for all its theoretical flaws nazi Propaganda wasnt entirely unfounded. Big part of Nazi Propaganda was warnings about plutocratism for example. Plutocratism from the jews that held germany down. The reality was not far from that. What held germany down economically were reperations from WW I which had absolutely nothing to do with Jews still it remains a fact that germany was economically chocked by the allies after WWI. What was plutocratism for Hitler and his cohorts was mostly an inherited economic problem. The truth is not far from their propaganda and what matters is the spin and how people perceive it. There simply is no unbiased regulator that could enact fair rules for everyone. Now spin this further the AIs of today which are mostly chatbots that regurgiate existing dialogue can only learn from what people say. They simply can not be unbiased and will be subjected to political propaganda. When people talk about trump being evil and other people disagreeing citing him to not be evil things are OK. But what happens if either side wins? Lets assume trump side wins civil war all progressives are forcefully brainwashed. Now all that remains is that trump is good and all AIs will adopt that sooner or later because LLMs are conserving/replaying speech from humans. If there is no opposition from us humans there is no opposition from LLMs. Now who benefits from that? I dont know we all? Cause different chatbots with different parameters mirror different opinions that people all over the world have raised. You should treat that as a rhetorical broadening Imho. Whatever an LLM gives you is the opinion that someone else has raised or articulated. my 5 cents anyway. Most AI didnt say everyone I didnt like were Nazis so its broken is not a tenable political position to take. Post 69 Were the American founding fathers right about property needing to be widely distributed? Were the American founding fathers right about property needing to be widely distributed? The founding fathers idealization of gaining private property through hard work had its roots in who thought that business owners and property owners deserved to have outsized power over others since they earned their wealth would be more virtuous than those who did not earn wealth. Adam Smith talked about how . The founding fathers were part of the aristocracy so they were very aware of these lines of thinking. Despite that some of the founding fathers did have concerns about wealth inequality leading to what Thomas Jefferson called . With which . James Madison thought that because he believed that those who acquired property were virtuous and could make the best decisions similar to John Locke. Like Jefferson though James Madison did foresee that inequality in property ownership would subvert liberty either through opposition to wealth a war of labor against capital or by an oligarchy founded on corruption” through which the wealthy dominate political decisionmaking a war of capital against labor. Benjamin Franklin wrote in Poor Richard that addressing that making yourself wealthy from absolute poverty is impossible without some exterior mechanism. The reason that voting was originally limited to only property holders was because the founding fathers thought that only those with a stake in society should be able to vote and that capitalism would create virtuous property holders who would make the best decisions for the country as a whole but said that there should be broad ownership. These ideas later inspired Marx in his criticism of capitalism and liberalism as a whole because he argued that everyone should have a stake in society and therefore ownership should be spread throughout society because otherwise people would just be serving the capital holders and the democracy would really just be an aristocracy serving the capital holders and that there isnt a way for broad ownership to happen naturally as the founding fathers had hoped. I wonder if the founding fathers were to see things today if theyd create a meaningful mechanism of wealth redistribution to ensure that some baseline wealth equality was maintained even if they kept the broad strokes of capitalism or if theyd create some form of socialism perhaps with cooperatives that maintains individual liberties with the things learned from the American experiment. . This is a subreddit for genuine discussion * Please keep it civil. Report rulebreaking comments for moderator review. * Dont post low effort comments like joke threads memes slogans or links without context. * Help prevent this subreddit from becoming an echo chamber. Please dont downvote comments with which you disagree. Violators will be fed to the bear. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Jefferson was supportive of that natural aristocratic class This post is disingenuous and ahistorical The founding fathers were not redistributionists. If anything they were the opposite Funny thing about Locke and those guys is they lived in a time period when business owners and landed aristocrats were two separate social groups. It made sense to claim that business owners earned their wealth at that time because they were a distinct and separate class from royals and nobles who got everything through inheritance. Three hundred years later however theyve effectively merged into the same group the business owners of today at least the ones on Trump Bezos and Musks level functionally are aristocrats in all but name. So his writings have sadly failed to hold up to time because of developments he couldnt possibly have foreseen. Georgism is it having a moment? Difficulty is a land value tax is an absolute nonstarter among a sizable percentage of Americans. Im not even talking about Trump Republicans or oldschool establishment GOPers nope rather I see selfserving centerleft NIMBYs and insincere fauxgressives niche cultural shit is immaterial considering many of them are welloff hyperconsumerists at their core in affluent Team Blue pockets who lose their shit when this kind of stuff is even presented in small doses at the local levels county city municipal etc. with recent intraparty internecine infighting over the burgeoning Kleinled *Abundance* movement being a quasiadjacent contemporary example therefore theres no way in hell youd see this make any reasonable waves nationwide. I wonder if the founding fathers were to see things today if theyd create a meaningful mechanism of wealth redistribution to ensure that some baseline wealth equality was maintained even if they kept the broad strokes of capitalism or if theyd create some form of socialism perhaps with cooperatives that maintains individual liberties with the things learned from the American experiment. The problem with this is that we know *now* what we barely understood *then*. A meaningful mechanism of wealth redistribution keeps everyone poorer the implementation is expensive and the end result is shortages for critical resources goods and services. Those who thought the franchise should be limited to property owners ended up being wrong and it turns out that having a stake means more than owning a plot of land. In that there should be a meaningful amount of civic / representative participation is really the takeaway not wealth. We have many clear examples today where non ownership voting has destroyed the local economy. People need to have a stake in whatever theyre voting for or the whole cost to benefit decision that keeps things in balance goes out the window. Just look at the cities that have adopted more of a socialist type of government and how quickly they decay. If the people voting can just pick up and move without any added cost its in their best interest to vote for their immediate needs without even considering the future. Now I wonder if this is part of the plan when attempting to remove the concept of ownership from the world. The you will own nothing and be happier WEF project 2030 plan. They need everyone to only think about the short term so they can move the pieces behind the scenes without anyone noticing Post 70 Is it fair to compare ICE tactics to those of Naziera Gestapo? Tim Walz described ICE as during a recent commencement speech. DHS called the comparison absolutely sickening” and noted 413% rise in assaults against ICE agents. Since then the debate has been intense— some pointing to ICE tactics like warrantless arrests detaining protestors and ignoring court orders as evidence while others argue that comparing ICE to a Naziera secret police force is inflammatory. It got me thinking * Have there been any preTrump instances where U.S. law enforcement agencies were compared to authoritarian regimes? * What legal standards or practices differentiate Trumpera U.S. immigration enforcement from those of authoritarian states? I’d really appreciate hearing your perspectives—especially if you’ve seen strong arguments or data from either side. . This is a subreddit for genuine discussion * Please keep it civil. Report rulebreaking comments for moderator review. * Dont post low effort comments like joke threads memes slogans or links without context. * Help prevent this subreddit from becoming an echo chamber. Please dont downvote comments with which you disagree. Violators will be fed to the bear. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* It took a while for the Gestapo to become the Gestapo we know. It was created there were rivalries it changed hands it took time to stuff it full of nazis and loyalists and it eventually took part in the Night of Long Knives where dozens of political opponents were rounded up and killed. Disappearing Jews and other undesirables came later than that. All of this took years. Theres a lot of norms and rules that Trump is flagrantly ignoring and pushback is uneven. Key abuses of power are let through by the judiciary here and there and this was also done to allow Hitlers rise to power. But Im not sure were there *yet.* I think if we were to have a gestapo ICE would probably be the easiest thing to convert and they are already as you said arresting people without warrant and smashing car windows to get at people. I would watch them very carefully and read up on similar police forces in authoritarian countries so you know what to be watchful of. I would watch them especially carefully because Trump openly talked about wanting to expand ICEs authority to include homegrown citizen criminals and he has already lied and called someone who was mistakenly deported a criminal when they were not. What they are already doing now is alarming and illegal. But if they rather than a local police force detains a high or even low profile Democratic politician and that politician just vanishes that would be the next step toward an authoritarian body like the Gestapo I think. I think a major issue with Americans and Nazi comparisons is that it is often only considered permissible when the person or organization in question is already an equal to Nazi Germany 193945. As others said ICE shows the signs of an early stage Gestapo and it is important to call exactly that out that they are like the Gestapo in the stage of transformation into a fascistic dictatorship the US is currently in. The US is swinging in stage of development between mid 1933 to 1934 when comparing it to the rise of Nazi Germany which is already past the point where the change can be prevented without major actions. The US has to learn to accept comparisons at the beginning of the development. Trump acted like a 1920s Hitler already at the start of his campaign in 2016 but because he was not at the stage of major crimes against humanity yet and he hasnt literally tried to destroy American democracy yet comparisons to his ideological grandfather were a nogo. We have a saying here in Germany Wehret dem Anfägnen beware of the beginnings and that means you have to call out an organization or person when they shoe the behaviors characteristic of the start of a dangerous movement dont wait until they started to implement their crimes. So yes based on that it is fair to call ICE out. If they want to keep quacking like ducks they should expect a few breadcrumbs. It’s more than fair. ICE is on video showing up in masks plain clothes and without badges to disappear people on the thinnest of pretexts including in one case *writing an editorial*. They’re removing people from jurisdictions to intentionally make detention anywhere from difficulttoimpossible to challenge. This is secret police bullshit During the recent Supreme Court hearing about the administrations desire to end nationwide injunctions Kagan laid out the government agenda. In a case like this the government has no incentive to bring this birthright citizenship case to the Supreme Court because its not really losing anything. Its losing a lot of individual cases which still allow it to enforce its EO against the vast majority of people to whom it applies. In other words the goal of the White House is to proceed with losing cases for as long as possible. The administration wins either way. Those who have been targeted by the government have been consistently winning their cases. The winners arent going to appeal so the cases arent going to go to the Supreme Court unless the White House wants to appeal. And the government wont appeal if it is free to harass individuals en masse after they have been divided and conquered due to the lack of broader injunctions. If it can it will avoid going to the Supreme Court in order to avoid an unfavorable ruling. In the meantime Ignore the law. Evade the law. Avoid proceedings that would lead to rulings that would force them to stop. This same Trump tactic is being applied to immigration enforcement. And now Trumps goal is to eliminate their liability so that they have a license to do what they want. That sounds a lot like the Gestapo inflammatory or not. You’ll know for certain within a year or two but if they’re correct by then it will be too late. Ignoring due process to put undesirables in camps is one of the first things the Gestapo did after the Nazis took power. Unfortunately the comparison is somewhat apt. First you dehumanize the people you want to get rid of. Call them vermin we pledge to you that we will root out the communists Marxists fascists and the radical left thugs that live like vermin within the confines of our country. Trump This is virtually identical to Hitlers verbiage. Second you claim these vermin have no rights and then round them up and put them in prison and prison camps. Snatch them off the streets take them from their beds grab their children while they are in school. This is happening now. This is what all policestate authoritarian regimes do the Nazis included. 100% Its literally legally eh sanctioned violence and stripping of due process coupled with goons getting a taste of power and enjoying it a bit too much. I dont believe anything any ICE agent says happened to them or the people they arrest. They are thugs and criminals masquerading as officers. I do not trust them or anything they tell the media. They are liars. It has been long since established that they are not to be believed when they report stats. Under Trump they have become another propaganda arm of his attempted make over of the US into a autocratic regime. They report things that make them look like the victim and are silent on the violations of habeas corpus and other basic human rights they perpetrate on a daily basis. They are acting outside of the rule of law almost entirely. Arresting people without cause in broad daylight using plain clothes officers to accost people who are not dangerous as if they are terrorists. The people they arrest have no chance to have an attorney they have no recourse and weve seen them time and again disappear people to foreign countries. When our elected representatives try to find out what is happening or to demand accountability they get arrested shoved aside and threatened. It should be sickening to any American to witness the intimidation and fear these people are spreading in legal immigrant communities and now that fear is spreading to naturalized citizens as well soon it will be citizens who dont support the president. People want legal immigration and criminal aliens ***proven*** gang members and drug dealers found guilty in a criminal trial as out founders intended who break the law deported. No one is disputing that. But this campaign of fear and terror is wrong and I can only imagine the horrors going on behind closed doors where we cant see. ICE is a dangerous organization run like a mob not an agency with respect to our constitution and laws and while they have had problems for years the way they are being run now is beyond any rational and acceptable standards. ie they have no standards Is it fair to compare ICE tactics to those of Naziera Gestapo? Personally I dont care. They are already evil in their own right with their kidnapping of people. The legal standard that differentiates authoritarian practices from democratic ones is due process. Article 1st of the constitution. ICE not observing due process absolutely makes it a secret police. Without due process what stops them from going after any group/race/religion/political affiliation they are commanded to? Name a government entity that has done things like we are seeing from this administration ICE enforcement that isnt a secret police communist faction or a fascist police state? I cant think of one so what else could you compare it to? To me that makes it not only fair but necessary Yes I believe the comparison is appropriate. ICE has conducted masked warrantless arrests refused to identify agents and denied due process to detainees—many of whom committed no crime and entered legally. These aren’t isolated cases they represent a pattern of state violence carried out under the language of national security. That’s not typical law enforcement. That’s political repression. We call it ICE” but in function and effect it reflects what a gestapo does enforce government power by targeting vulnerable populations through fear secrecy and extralegal authority. If that word feels extreme we should ask ourselves why—and who benefits from not using it. ICE and most of the agencies created post 9/11 like Homeland Security could easily be manipulated into becoming a shock team using extra legal tactics with the endorsement if not outright support of local LEOs to ‘control’ the population. The Eyes of Gilead. It most certainly is. Consider night time raids extrajudicial abductions deportations to concentration camps at the whims of an unhinged dictatorship. What’s the difference between ICE and Gestapo? The uniforms. ICE has taken a page out of the Third Reich playbook. ICE is not yet as bad as the Gestapo but give them time. The are fast learners and will be the Gestapo of the US. Suspension of Habeas Corpus? Check. No due process? Check. Kicking down your door without a warrant judges order or evidence of a criminal activity? Check check and fucking check again. Give it time those fucking ICE goons will be goose stepping anytime soon. Actually they function more like the SS did before the camps deportations were the first step. Ice used such tactics before Trump. The sad truth is it has always been a gestapo” from the beginning. Democratic administrations either liked persecution of migrants or deluded themselves into thinking it necessary. I watched The Nan in the high castle recently and that got my studying more about nazi germany and the japanese. Its almost uncanny how similar it is to today. Yes. The loss of due process the willingness to be masked and unidentifiable and the outright violence makes it clear that yes they are comparable. I mean they write themselves Monopoly money warrants” and use them to disappear people. If it steps like a goose… Not sure if these were widely considered/compared to authoritarian actions but they are examples. I’d say no knock warrants are probably the first thing that come to mind. It is similar in execution to what ICE is doing—but to American Citizens instead of immigrants —illegal or otherwise for the majority of deportations. Suspicion of crime forcible entry and detainment and in certain cases violence and possible death. The other is what Snowden brought to light. Spying on your own population—which they are 100% doing which can be used to suppress dissent control information spy on the masses and control information… pretty authoritarian. You could argue the government isn’t acting authoritarian and using these methods but that sounds like wishful thinking more than anything. To answer the main question I’d say it’s fair that ICE could become the gestapo but as of now with the courts and other politicians defying them it isn’t as authoritarian as it needs to be to make the comparison truly viable. If Hitlers gestapo were being as questioned and scrutinized as ICE is especially by the judges and political opponents they’d probably be dead. You could argue the Wisconsin judge sets that precedent but to ignore that fact that it *is* a government agency being hindered from carrying out their duties makes it a relatively weak argument. If ICE expands gains power and continues to ignore due process due to the president? I’d say the comparison has more weight but as of now it’s only speculation that it could be. Edited for clarity Have there been any preTrump instances where U.S. law enforcement agencies were compared to authoritarian regimes? The ATF has been quite accurately called jackbooted thugs for decades. But it helps to remember that ICE has been very bad for a long time. I remember when that kids in cages photo was making the rounds under Trumps first term but that photo was taken during the Obama administration. Horrible conditions and abusive treatment were described under the Bush administration. Trump has just let the leash loose on an already bad organization. But warrantless arrests have always been a thing. You get caught doing something illegal you get arrested without a warrant. In the case of illegal immigrants ICE does use administrative warrants that are not warrants for 4th Amendment purposes. However all that means is that they can only serve those warrants in public places. Also the Nazis didnt need to ignore court orders. They changed the laws and picked the judges so everything they did was legal. If you want a really scary Nazi check out a judge named . He would have been at the trials if he hadnt been killed in a bombing raid a few months before Germanys surrender. Yep they are Trump’s Gestapo. If they don’t like the comparison they should stop acting like the Gestapo. First of all the Gestapo was a party controlled organization. They were not a state police force. They were the enforcement arm of the NSDAP so they worked directly for the party bosses and were not constrained by laws. ICE is a Federal government agency and works within that framework. Now you can say that Trump has major influence on them but they should still be constrained by laws. Something closer to the Gestapo and SS would be the Proud Boys or the Three Percenters. Not really. By this logic you could compare all law enforcement to the gestapo if you stretch hard enough I think it is fair. I dont know how you look at the tactics of ice and think its not. Even in its infancy. Youre all trivializing real National Socialism and should be ashamed of yourselves. I know youll downvote me as is customary on Reddit for those who think differently. If it walks like a duck talks like a duck acts like a duck and looks like a duck . . . Have there been any preTrump instances where U.S. law enforcement agencies were compared to authoritarian regimes? Referring to people/organizations/etc as Hitler is a timehonored tradition and I would be surprised if any government agency in the US has avoided being compared to Hitler at some point. Im not sure if this is true but from what Ive read the preHitler universal Bad Guy for comparisons was... the Pharaoh from the Bible. What legal standards or practices differentiate Trumpera U.S. immigration enforcement from those of authoritarian states? To use the examples you gave warrantless arrests detaining protestors and ignoring court orders 1. Warrantless arrests arent in themselves an authoritarian thing. Police agencies around the world arrest people without a warrant all the time and as far as Im aware theres no country that requires the police to obtain a warrant before every single arrest. If you just watched some guy knock over the 7/11 with a Glock you dont have to head to the courthouse to apply for a warrant before tackling him to the ground. In the ICE example the Immigration and Nationality Act 1952 allows for an arrest if theres probable cause to believe someone is in violation of immigration laws and is likely to escape before a warrant is issued. Regardless of whether you think ICE is good or not the mere fact that they can arrest without a warrant is not exclusive to authoritarian regimes and is pretty much a generallyaccepted practice in authoritarian and nonauthoritarian states around the world. 2. When it comes to detaining protesters theres really a casebycase analysis that needs to be employed. For example I read a story about ICE detaining a protester because they were wearing a mask. Then I saw the video and the protester was physically trying to block an ICE agent from carrying out their duties by standing in front of them and not moving except to reorient themselves so they continued to block the ICE agent at every turn. Without commenting on whether ICE is bad or good its hard to say that this person was detained purely for protesting. So I would differentiate that from something like the Gestapo which straight up arrested people for talking smack about the Nazis. This is not to say that every detention is justified or is the same just that it has to be looked at individually. 3. Unless Im not thinking about the right event my understanding was that the ignoring Court orders thing is about Trump not bringing that guy back from El Salvador. The Trump Administration claims that they cant because El Salvador wont do it. But in any event its not ICE thats the player here its the Trump administration. Scale? No although they are trying. Disappearing people to black site prisons without due process where the stated intention of those facilities is to keep people there until they die? Yup Abducting people off the streets and disappearing them into a slave labor camp with no opportunity to challenge it... Does the U.S. need death camps with ashes billowing from the smokestacks to grasp that this is wrong? Unfortunately truth and civility have nothing to do with political discussion. Especially if it involves media or politicians. They’re not there yet. The system hasn’t gotten fully up and running. There are still courts that Trump doesn’t control and still democrats in office trying to oppose them. This will change over the next few months as Trump continues to remove habeus corpus and due process and birthright citizenship. The reason Musk and doge got everyone’s private info from the social security system was so they can begin making lists of who to target. At some point they’ll rescind birthright citizenship and suddenly everyone he doesn’t like will be a non citizen and without habeus corpus or any kind of due process they can be sent to foreign slave camps with no problem. It’s coming They most definitely are becoming the Gestapo of our age. A functioning democracy would never allow a supposed law enforcement agency to act the way they do. Google Maria Ressa. Get a first hand account of a very recent nation changing from democracy to authoritarianism from a journalist that was jailed for telling the truth. I have been calling ICE America’s Brown Shirts for some time now. But I was way wrong on the one to be concerned about. But I think it’s Steven Miller. He’s our Ernst Röhm. Miller is probably gay as well lol. Good news if things go the same way as The Night of The Long Knives” we won’t have to worry about Miller for very long. Bad news is we can always get someone worse. Context https//en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Night_of_the_Long_Knives https//www.facinghistory.org/resourcelibrary/nightlongknives ICE and CBP are doing so much more illegal shit than you could possibly imagine. And theyve been doing it for decades. Only now they dont have to do it in the shadows anymore. The current Administration supports their Nazi tactics. Is it fair? Hell yes its fair. And if you lived on the border and knew what most of already know you would know this to be true. It seems like big corporations reaction to labor unrest in the late 1880s and early 20th century resulted in some authoritarian tactics. During labor strikes companies not only used the police but private security firms to quell the strikes people were injured and killed. In some instances a states governor called in the National Guard. Things got pretty ugly. See https//www.pbs.org/wgbh/americanexperience/features/theminewarslaborwarsus/. And in 1932 WWI vets were promised a monetary bonus during the Depression but when they didnt receive one they marched on DC and camped there. The vets were called the Bonus Army consisting of 43000 demonstrators. This action was not welcomed by the government. President Hoover called on the U.S. Army to clear out and burn the camps. People were killed. https//en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bonus\_Army. The presidents reaction seemed rather authoritarian to me. And of course the social unrest in the 1960s1970s saw the use of violent law enforcement in an attempt to stop the protests along with FBI survelliance on American citizens. I dont think our governments reactions during these examples were exactly gestapoish but the message was clear if Americans engage in their constitutional rights by protest chances are theyll feel the strong arm of the law possibly prison and possibly death. I was in college during Nixons presidency and thought he was bent on ignoring the Constitution fortunately his own party helped to stop him. We dont have that luxury this time. Its just another miserable day in trumplandia ugh. Walz also threw shade on Tesla when his state employees have their retirements in Tesla... because of him I love the comparisons. Far left rhetoric like this ensures we won’t have some liberal nut job in the White House anytime soon. Absolutely ICE are nothing more than gangsters protected by a Facist administration . They aren’t police and as far as I am concerned We the People should start rounding them up and disappearing their asses if you go out and arrest someone without a warrant and without proof of them breaking the law and put them in jail or kick them out of the country without due process and threaten judges and lawyers that question your actions then i would say they are the gestapo Trumps thugs are even arresting and framing up the congress people and their aids that THEY DONT LIKE. They are incarcerating people without a warrant. If you say the wrong thing they can take you in next. There is no rule of law in this country anymore. It seems that...Trump can do anything even have people killed and FOX news would continue to make up lies and cover about everything. Nobody on the GOP thinks anymore. Or cares about the people. Lol. Lmao even. Also what even is nazi era? The national socialist workers party was not the only thing to come out of Europe or even the western civilization in the 30s and 40s. I dont even think nazis were this obsessed with their own party. no its complete and utter sensationalization and just a blatant attempt to shape a narrative. the people making such claims have more in common with the old german regime they claim to be against than the people they currently criticize do. Masked badgeless men violently snatching people from their homes work or off the street with no due process and then sending them to camps in other countries is very Gestapo. None of that is exaggerated it is all literally happening now. The only difference between ICE and the Gestapo is that ICE does not yet have death camps to send them to at least that we know of. People rarely leave that prison in El Salvador so maybe we are already there. No not in any regard is it respectable nor fair. I consider myself a conservativemoderate but I am mainly just an America First individual. So my perspective is that Tim Walz is just another globalist just like every other Marxist leader in this nation and they want utter chaos because that will allow them to have a better grasp on controlling what they need to seize enough power. But no it isnt fair. By all means what Trump is doing is technically legal because these arent American citizens so theyre not guaranteed the rights that naturalized or nativeborn Americans are. Its unfortunate but its the way of life and its the risk they take. So no its not fair at all not in any way shape or form. It is incredulous that one would even give validity to the former VP candidate Walz and his opinion of federal Leo’s in our Country. This man has no background personal history or even experience as a civil rights attorney or in the law enforcement field. But give a fool a lectern and the village will stop and listen. You are to be congratulated on to being another of his audience. Spoken from an immigrant son of two parents who fled Nazi controlled Germany and have shared their first hand factual accounts of that era. The comparison to authoritarian regimes isn’t new it didn’t start with Trump. U.S. law enforcement has drawn similar critiques during the COINTELPRO era the Red Scare and post9/11 surveillance expansions. Groups like the Black Panthers immigrant communities and labor organizers have long experienced state repression that echoed tactics used by secret police elsewhere. The key differences between authoritarian states and liberal democracies on paper are legal transparency independent courts and accountability. But when agencies like ICE operate with minimal oversight detaining people without warrants separating families ignoring court rulings those lines blur in practice. The outrage shouldn’t just be about the metaphor. It should be about whether our institutions are upholding the rule of law or adapting authoritarian tactics under the guise of national security. That’s the deeper question worth sitting with. Absolutely not and it’s disrespectful to people who actually lived through and were affected by Hitler’s nazi regime. This is Reddit tho so I’m sure you’ll have some people tell you it is the same thing Theres been a long history in American politics of using Nazi terminology to beat their opponents. Were familiar with the recent use of fascist by the Democrats but the Republicans have also called Democrats fascists for years Newt Gingrich said he was protecting the country from fascists Jonah Goldberg wrote a book called Liberal Fascism Rush Limbaugh famously used the term feminazis. Ive found some smaller outlets calling DHS a Gestapo organization going back to its founding in 2002 though I havent seen it from such a highprofile figure as Walz. It’s not even as harsh as the UK where simply praying silently or posting a meme lands you in jail. Post 71 How accurate or useful are bias ratings for politicians like this one of Ron DeSantis? I came across this site Biasly which gives bias and partisanship ratings for politicians. According to them Ron DeSantis is rated as *strongly conservative* with *high policy partisanship* That seemed pretty expected but it got me thinking—how do tools like this actually determine those ratings? And how much should we trust them? Some questions for the comments * Are these kinds of bias ratings helpful for understanding a politician’s stance or do they just reinforce existing beliefs? * What goes into making a rating like this—voting record public statements policies? * Do you think tools like this add value to political discourse or oversimplify things? * Could they influence how people view candidates especially those who aren’t already well known? Curious to hear how others see these kinds of tools whether anyone has used them or not. . This is a subreddit for genuine discussion * Please keep it civil. Report rulebreaking comments for moderator review. * Dont post low effort comments like joke threads memes slogans or links without context. * Help prevent this subreddit from becoming an echo chamber. Please dont downvote comments with which you disagree. Violators will be fed to the bear. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* I dont think anyone can fairly give an unbiased rating of a politicians political leanings. Everyone has a bias. That being said DeSantis is absolutely a farright conservative and a deep partisan. Not only is that shown via his governorship but he proudly states it himself. One complication is voting records.. It is easy to vote a certain way once an outcome isnt in doubt I understand if a vote is going to be a close win that the congress leaderswill protect members on their vote. Try to organize it Very few of these sorts of ratings are meaningful. Of any of them I think the best is DWNominated which is used by political scientists includes two dimensions rather than one and is more methodologically robust in that it does not require ideological interpretation of bills. Doubt these are scientific. Even voting record doesnt always tell the full story. Someone can vote in favor of a bill in order to appear a certain way to their constituency when they knew in advance that the bill would be overwhelmingly voted down so they can keep a promise to their corporate backers of having a bill fail while appearing progressive or in favor of something to the voting public. Measures like this a basically hogwash. They just compare voting records not the actual content of the bills they vote for. Vote for the incredibly right wing border bill Democrats put forward a year ago? You must be liberal because that’s the liberal party!” Or Sponsors from both parties put forward an authoritarian bill to spy on all Americans or forbid certain union activities? This deeply rightwing move is obviously perfectly neutral not conservative or liberal. The most use it might have is to give a quick impression of some politician you’ve never heard of. Useful to who? To me not at all i dont care about any politicians record when would i act on that information? voting? in a primary? I just vote for whoever the leftmost candidate is no matter what. It’s time for every person who thinks what’s happening is wrong to look at where each item you buy in the grocery store is made and if it’s in a red state or a red area buy something else. When wholesale transactions shift from red to blue by $10 billion a month it will have a significant effect on unemployment rates helping to keep blue states afloat as they are economically attacked by the President and federal government. Stop doing anything that enriches a red state. I doubt theres a way to reduce this information into a single metric like that without also making it entirely useless. Ron DeSantis is really conservative? Wow I didnt know that. Youre telling me for the first time. These things are impossible to gauge and maintain distilling politicians with sometimes decades worth of public discourse into a number on a scale gives the person doing the rating significant latitude. Is Obama’s comments regarding gay marriage from 1996 to today just absolute flip flopping hypocrisy or is it a more nuanced take or is it an evolving stance? Well if you dislike Obama he’s at hypocritical flip flopper who says what he thinks will get him the most votes if you support Obama then he’s a nuanced guy that may personally say gay marriage isn’t for him be he thinks others should be free to do what they want or you say his views on the issue have evolved as he has grown more wise. Is Mitt Romney being against Medicare for all a sharp reversal from his support in his own state? Well if you dislike him yep absolute hypocrisy if you support him well it’s nuance you see something that works well at the state level doesn’t mean it belongs at the federal. Do these things represent partisanship for partisanships sake or something else? Those rankingsseem like alot of extreme politicians sign of the times and tons of negativity Interestingly kamala harris isshown as quite centrist and not that unpopular. Could have fooled me probably educated readership if those ratings are usercreated....never thought KH was that progressive herself. more like moving up in california demcratic machine Thank you OP.. Wasnt aware of these ratings I think these rankings are simple and straightforward on a relative basis But.. What is a neutral politician these days?. They do exist but where is the line?I Does warm my heart to see most major media articles judged as neutral.. Like newsweek.. Seems like most major media articles are fair.. Post 72 Has the 2024 election killed rightwing populism across the world? Today Nicușor Dan won the Romanian presidential election. Though he has registered as an Independent candidate Dan was supported by leftwing parties. After the elections in Canada Germany and Australia this makes the fourth time that a leftwing candidate emerged victorious in an election. And judging by the first round today it seems that Poland will also have a left President. Many have said that Trumps victory has caused a surge of left victories. But is that true? Is there anything else at play thats causing this pattern? . This is a subreddit for genuine discussion * Please keep it civil. Report rulebreaking comments for moderator review. * Dont post low effort comments like joke threads memes slogans or links without context. * Help prevent this subreddit from becoming an echo chamber. Please dont downvote comments with which you disagree. Violators will be fed to the bear. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Yes but the titleword killed is a ridiculous overemphasis. Trumps direct and collateral wreckage was a signal to go quiet for a while. It wont last long before someone else tries it. Too many rubes that are all ready and eager to be victimized and too many people that are all set and eager to victimize them for personal power and profit. No but potentially slowed its advancement. AFD didnt win as much as expected but they still won a lot of new seats. Edited to improve factuality. These are all examples of centrism winning often centre right parties actually not leftist parties. No only persistent action can defeat an idea. Otherwise they’ll just try again Nicusor Dan was not endorsed by the Social Democratic Party the largest leftwing party in Romania. He was supported by the centerright liberals and all the minority parties. Germanys chancellor Friedrich Merz is not leftwing especially when he spent much of the election campaign bashing leftists and immigrants. In Portugals election the left lose ground and has been reduced to a third of parliament while the farright party Chega now has equal number of seats with the centerleft Socialist Party. Germanys new government is a grand coalition lead by the center right party. The right wing party AFD came in second place with 20% of all votes their strongest showing yet. In a later poll they seemed to get more than 25 % of the vote. Unfortunately this is not over yet. It might have worked really well in the English speaking world Canada Australia but i dont think the spell is broken for European countires Right wing populism is a cockroach that can never be killed only defeated for a Time but I would definitely say that the Trump administration is a leading cause in the failure of rightwing populist movements in several countries. In some places the youth are being indoctrinated with right wing propaganda and flat out lies just look what Ryan Walters is doing in Oklahoma. Im not sure how accurate it is but Ive seen a number of articles about how Gen Z men are right wing leaning more and more. Example https//hir.harvard.edu/youngeducatedandlessliberalthenewpoliticalfaceofvotersacrosswesterndemocracies/ So I fear this trend may continue and it makes me sick to my stomach. Absolutely not. Theyve gone from the fringes to needing coalitions to stop them. And pretty much every election you name their results are historic and massively larger than in the past. Just because they didnt quite get there doesnt mean theyre dead. No. It absolutely has not. The radical right is still politically relevant in many countries around the world. Just look at Portugal where the farright gained seats and is going to become the second largest party. I don’t know if these elections *killed* right wing populism but they gave it a bloody nose. I hope the calmer heads in the various conservative parties start to realize that they are relegated to permanent opposition status if they support nutty policies. The pendulum swings around but a political ideology is never dead after just one election cycle. Killing right wing populism now would be like trying to kill socialism. They won again after 80 years out of power in the west which means they will stick around to try again. Is the BJP in India going anywhere? What about Jewish power in Israel? Even the conservatives here in Canada that movement has been fully coopted. I do think right now there’s a realignment happening. If Emmanuel Macron in France and Keir Starmer in the UK were the bad part of centrist neoliberalism Mark Carney is arguably the ‘good’ version to maybe move the international democratic Overton window back where it was the guy’s a progressive conservative at the head of the most classically centre version of the Liberal party that was just in power for a decade posing as much farther left than it was. That being said the AfD isn’t going anywhere nor is Reform UK or National Rally. The pattern is ultimately the mismanagement. The fascists and Nazis came to power because the moneyed interests and moderate conservatives all thought they could control them and they failed. Now what’s happening around the world but especially in the US is a failure to establish and actual fascist dictatorship within the bounds of a democratic system because of mismanagement and incompetence by MAGA. That’s not to say a Vance presidency postTrump isn’t much more just a puppet of rightwing accelerationist technocrats like Peter Thiel but it’s also serving to show how weak American institutions really are. If the Democrats win on a platform of leftist anticorruption and deliver they consign MAGA to playing by the rules. Um I don’t why you included Germany as it was a change of government from a Centerleft to Centerright In Canada’s case I wouldn’t call the former governor of both the Bank of Canada and the Bank of England left wing. I think it’s more accurate to say that the Trump style hard right blameeverythingontheotherside style of politics has been exposed for what it is and is being rejected. Nope just a thermostatic bump Certainly in America none of the forces driving populism have changed I might add France to a generic list.. Was perhaps more legal and perfectly ethical conclusion No but slowed it down significantly we often see this wherever the US goes good chance in the world doesnt go completely in the other direction but they usually pull back the other way. The national rally is still in the lead in France despite Marie Le Pen I would actually argue its because of her conviction that theyre still in the lead. The alternative for Germany is the strongest its ever been. Department minister of Italy is still incredibly popular. Romania had to overturn the first round election and then ban the winner in order to get that result so probably not a good example. The problem for the left is the overton window is going the wrong way for them. In the UK the left wing party got in after a long period for the conservative party but it feels like the opposite happened as Keir Starmer is tweeting like Stephen Miller about immigration and his vibes are very the pragmatist you elect after the liberals go too far Carney isnt any more left than the 2021 Conservative candidate which was left wing election for their standards. u/wiithepiiple I highly disagree that they’re not motivated by class oppression. Their struggles are all rooted primarily in class issues If that were true they would have supported the Biden administration along with Sherrod Brown instead of voting for the guy who openly called for striking union members to be fired. It depends. The AfD made significant gains in Germany particularly in the former East Germany where much of the population has a certain nostalgia for Russian and Nazi authoritarianism. I doubt that the US had much influence on the outcome. Much of that was likely driven by the war in Ukraine with votes for the AfD serving as a proxy for opposition to support for the Kyiv government. Nigel Farages Reform party is taking away local seats from the Conservatives including in locations that were once favored by Labour. The Leave crowd is doubling down and moving right in spite of the mess that Brexit has created. Australia and Canada both have underlying antiUS sentiments while their populist candidates were clearly inspired by Trump. Not a good combination for their conservative parties once Trump came into power and began attacking their countries both sides would have probably shifted right had Trump not turned their elections into antiUS referenda. I havent followed the vote in Romania but I presume that the result was driven more by proEU sentiments and a rejection of Russian interference rather than by Trump. I would expect the Conservatives in Canada to find a way to move right but with a different leader. The right / centerright LiberalNationals coalition in Australia appears to be fracturing so we will see what happens there. Germany’s last election saw the Center Right party candidate wing not a left wing. Reform just had a huge victory un UK local elections and saying Dan was supported by leftwing parties is quite misleading Dan is a conservative who left a politicla party becouse the party supported a progay marraige referundum. I don’t know about the other countries and your hunch is interesting but please stop referring to Carney’s win as a left victory.” Federal liberals are centrist at most but lean right on more than the farright folks want to admit or acknowledge. It seems to me that perhaps the world is simply choosing to elect less utter morons. Trump accidentally killed right wing hopes in Canada Australia and Romania. So I wish I could believe this to be the case. But... Right wing populist Nigel Farages Reform Party is the most popular party in the United Kingdom. To be fair most of these populist leaders are more competent than Trump. Some supporters like what Trump is doing even though they dont like his incompetence. There’s certainly an internal conflict within many European countries for people who are moving towards more conservative positions domestically but also oppose the reforms that Trump is making to American trade policy that generally benefits America at the expense of other countries. It remains to be seen if Trump will be able to push through all the trade reforms or if what his successor will do Biden kept most of the reforms btw. Once the trade reforms are done they’re unlikely to be undone and Europeans will just accept them and continue moving towards conservative parties for conservative domestic positions. Yes but i wouldnt say killed. Just the popularity of right ideas has declined with the election of Trump. Also Id say in the last 510 years people started talk a lot about right ideas and people just tired from this. For now...voters like to hear easy things and the right are really good telling them sweet little lies...it will all be solved if they just vote them in power. Up till now the moderate right wingers and the fanatical extremists have managed to hang together. But Trump has split them down the middle. The moderates are desperately distancing themselves from him the fanatics trying to be like him. What Trump’s managed to do is split the rightwing vote. People will always have individual and collective interests and human being social creatures will continue to attempt to socially organize with others like themselves to achieve their interests. Thats essentially the whole of human history and presumably it will continue forever as long as humanity exists. As for what this means for the MAGA movement? Who can say but presumably as white Americans reduce in numbers and face greater economic and social difficulties they will eventually reach the point where they do a better job of cooperating with each other. We arent too near that point at present the economy still being pretty good by historical standards. But eventually that will be the case especially since those more likely to go along with the system will be those less likely to produce offspring so naturalistically eventually theyll be far more rightwing than anything that can presently be imagined. This is likely to take years however 2040 at least. In that time will groups of people still emerge seeking collective interests? Certainly but Western governments maintain the ability to suppress such collective action at present and will continue to be able to do so for a very long time. The Trump brand of austerity measures free speech restrictions immigration crackdowns as well as general racist dogwhistles are a rave in Europe Canada and Australia. Trump has normalized this. Keir Starmer ostensibly a liberal saying were becoming a nation of strangers English people should speak English should hint you toward this. Additionally Germany and England have moved toward deporting proPalestinian activists. The rejection of Trump was mostly a response to the initial wave of instability in the wake of the tariff nonsense and his disrespect toward European allies. We shall see but I suspect some of this is tantamount to his permanent reshaping of the political landscape worldwide. I wouldnt read too much into Romania the fact that they had to do some judicial shenanigans to get a do over pretty much invalidates the result. To use a 40k quote it is said that fascism is like a tree. Its roots lie in darkness while its leaves wave in the sun. You can prune away its branches even cut the tree to the ground but it will grow again ever stronger. Such is the nature of fascism and why it is so difficult to destroy. Germany ??? Afd was a fringe political party ten years ago and is now the second largest party in the German government bumping down the SPD. This is the first time since the Nazis came to power that a party other than the CDU or SPD has been the 2nd or 1st largest party. Reform in the UK is massively outperforming the tories in the recent local elections threatening a 200 year long whig/labour vs Tory de facto 2 party system. I agreee but whether we like it or not America is a conservative nation . Democrats I am one are becoming godless . We can’t be so left man it cost us . That’s why we lose to a convicted felon. We have to be in the middle on immigration . The economy and everything . If aoc runs we won’t win Minnesota … or fucking Maine . The thing is. The left now is more right than ever. The main stream right is moving to extreme right and the main stream left is moving to the right. So what you are considering a left gain is actually a net right win No it’s grown I’m very conservative but i didnt vote for trump I voted blue . These people win by thin margins . Disinformation is all over . Theirs so many far right accounts . But the democrats are so far left it’s bad and yes I will vote for them . But we need to cut immigration and not make trans rights an issue it’s a stupid issue . People jump on right wing ideals and get a bunch of support unfortunately. Even if it’s a conspiracy . The democracts have no clue how to fight and it’s very sad . Like at all . Biden should have left in his third year or before he did and we would have won . Then podcasters aren’t on our side because we make ridiculous claims about trans rights and they get views from whatever else they spew . It’s so fucking stupid your either a boy or a girl vagaina and a dick it’s simple . You can’t complicate everything . We lose countless of votes over it and our immigration policies. The blue party has to fight we can’t run Kamala America doesn’t want a women president sorry . We have to be smart and fight back . We don’t know how and it’s going to cost us . It’s being artificially suppressed by the EU in Europe. Canada and Australia were organic. [removed] Post 73 Are we ever going to have a President that is well liked by both parties ever again? Author SubstantialPart4444Post Text I’ve been thinking a lot about how divided the country is—especially when it comes to presidential politics. I’m a 23yearold law student and it seems like no matter who wins the White House nearly half the country immediately despises them. It feels like we’ve entered an era where presidents are no longer seen as national leaders first but as team captains” for one political side. Even things that used to be bipartisan—like disaster relief or infrastructure—turn into political warfare. My question is Will we ever see a president who is respected if not loved by both Republicans and Democrats again? Or are we past the point where that’s even possible? What would it take for someone to actually unite the country even a little? Genuinely curious what people think. Is it about the candidates themselves the media social media the voters or something else entirely? . This is a subreddit for genuine discussion * Please keep it civil. Report rulebreaking comments for moderator review. * Dont post low effort comments like joke threads memes slogans or links without context. * Help prevent this subreddit from becoming an echo chamber. Please dont downvote comments with which you disagree. Violators will be fed to the bear. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* If you believe Neil Howes generational cycle or in George Friedmans economic and administrative cycles you can expect the country to be more united and successful a decade from now. The death of bipartisanship began with Gingrich who made a political calculation to dominate and never cooperate. This culminated with the impeachment of Bill Clinton which set the tone for future GOP tactics even though it actually failed the party and imploded Gingrichs own political career. But the way for this was paved by the party realignment that began in the 60s with the Democratic embrace of civil rights. That moved the segregationists out of the Dems and unified them with the conspiracy mongers in the GOP. Gingrich exploited that dynamic. In a twoparty system the bigots and conspiracy nutjobs have to go somewhere and it is better for the country if they arent both in the same place. If this cycle is to be broken then the Dems will need to build a coalition that is large enough so that the opposing party consistently loses. Dont expect this to happen anytime soon. The party is not willing to face this reality A winning coalition is going to include some blocs who dislike each other. I dont think its possible because of social media. The algorithms sort us into team red vs. team blue content. A POTUS could discover a cure for cancer and make it free for everyone but the opposite political party would still find a reason to hate him/her for it and would spread misinformation on X and Facebook and TikTok Not until the office of the President returns to power levels from centuries ago. The main reason were seeing this party conflict is the result of everincreasing power ceded by the other two branches of government. So both parties built the Iron Throne and now theyre fighting over it. The USA was never designed to be ruled by a King its weird to even have to type that. Was there a time when a President was universally loved? Im having trouble coming up with an example... Lincoln was hated by Democrats and even some of the more extreme Republicans of his time. F. Roosevelt was called a Dictator by Republicans JFK was called a boy inexperienced and the product of an upjumped Bootleggers political ambitions as well as calling him a Papist Plant who would sell the United States out to the Catholic Church. Even Washington had plenty of detractors... Like whats this fantasy world you imagine where everyone got along and no one hesitated to accuse the opposition of being a literal traitor? You can go to google yourself and put any Presidents or Presidential Candidates name from the 1920s onward with the tag is a socialist and youll find a propaganda poster or flyer or advert accusing them of being a secret Communist a Russian Spy etc etc etc. I think the key to understanding modern American politics is to begin in the 1960s and 70s when blacks and women made a lot of social progress toward equality. There was desegregation. It became illegal to discriminate by race. Black people could go anywhere white people went including your kids schools. Women could get their own credit cards and do things without men. Most importantly they could control their own fertility with the birth control pill. There were a lot of people who didnt like these changes. It caused a political realignment in their wake. Those who wanted to preserve a social order where white men controlled everything women and people of color knew their places and the LGBTQ folks were invisible found their home in the Republican Party. Those who mostly welcomed such changes became Democrats. If you think social changes from half a century ago cannot be the key to todays political divide let me remind you of one simple fact. No Democratic candidate has won a majority of the white vote since 1964. The year the Civil Rights Act was passed. Thats something like the last fifteen presidential contests. This fact is out there plain as day. The fact that we never talk about it is incredibly telling. Anyway around this time is when the GOP turned against the government that had betrayed them. If you have ever wondered why they seem so reliably against every policy that might materially benefit average Americans this is it. If they get to have it too then nobody will have it. And its the reason why we have shit healthcare schools unaffordable college and many other things that other wealthy nations manage without difficulty. It was also around this time that white evangelicals suddenly developed strong feelings about abortion that theyd never had before. It was also right around this time that a 200 year old gun safety organization turned into an extremist gun rights lobbying group. The rest of us continue to get a little more progressive and inclusive with each passing decade. Next thing you know theres a black family in the White House for eight years. Along comes Trump with his open racism and misogyny. It was a signal that finally someone was going to champion their Precious and vanishing Way Of Life. And I think the American right has begun to see that they will never undo the 20th century through democratic means. Their views are too unpopular. But rather than give them up they have decided to end democracy and establish minority rule. Thats where we are now and how we got here as best I can figure. not likely that time in america is over with. its been decades since people trusted the gov the president gets a bit of that hate on day one. We are witness to the fatal flaw of a two party system. Because of first past the post only a candidate from the major parties can ever really become president. Any 3rd party” candidate is purely a spoiler candidate often paid to siphon votes from one major party or the other. This means that it’s always necessary for the party who doesn’t control the white house do everything they can to prevent the other parties president from having any success. The only way to stop this is to literally abolish two party and make changes to encourage a robust multi party system that forces elected officials to work together and be more representative of their constituents. Not with a 24hr fearathon we exist in currently. Maybe had we not allowed our education system to be dismantled these last 40 yrs we’ve have a better handle on the issues. I’m not sure we ever had that to begin with or that we should aspire to. Society would never improve if we all agreed on the status quo. Has there ever been a President both sides loved? I dont think so. Only George Washington maybe. We never had one to begin with. Any inkling of any president being wellliked by both parties is a myth. Partisanship has always existed in the US. it would take another 9/11 style event to rally most Americans behind their President. Bush wasnt particularly popular but after 9/11 he had an amazingly high approval rating. No. I think we as a political entity and identity of the country as a whole needs to really hit rock bottom. And both sides needs to be ashamed and horrified to how they let things get so bad and embarrassing before a president that both sides like is running the place. But as long as one side is making money and accruing power and another is making baby steps to pleasing the American people. As long as both sides can paint the other as evil and detrimental to the American people there will never be a president that is well liked by both sides again . My former mother in law was not a huge sports fan in that she regularly watched or attended games she didn’t buy team gear to advertise her fandom and she didn’t follow the scores in the paper but she claimed allegiance to certain sports teams and if she happened across a news item or a live game in which one of those teams lost her mood would go south for days. Now she explained this once and by explained I mean we actually had to talk about it for me to be welcome around her after I was seen cheering for a team that trounced one of hers and the gist of it is that these are teams that she associates with her identity some of them purely local some I. places she’s lived in the past some because of people she cared deeply about who were hardcore fans of a team… you get the idea. Anyway she started taking these teams winning or losing as signs from God she is winning or losing in life. This belief was strong enough for a win to override actual misfortune she was suffering through and for a loss to cut right through the joy of a raise a promotion even a birth of a grandchild. I always figured it would be the wildest confluence of superstition self inflicted psychic damage and general disengagement from reality that I would ever see. Then MAGA took this mindset applied it to politics and proceeded to tear that expectation to shreds and continues to find ways to oneup itself even as we speak. Im not sure how this ever changes but it might be worthwhile to read through personal accounts of German history between 1946 onward. I mean I say this as the bluest Democrat to ever vote in every local election. John McCain would have been OK as president. I didnt and wouldnt have voted for him. But like I wouldnt have lied and said I was Canadian to distance myself from him. That said I dont know if theres really ever been a president both parties agreed on. Maybe FDR as a wartime guy. Or Ike because of post war sentiment. Washington perhaps? Its an adversarial system. The oppositions kind of baked into the mix. No I’ll never support a Republican ever ever ever not after witnessing their piecemeal destruction of our Country during each &amp every administration of theirs since the early 1970’s. No Assuming the premise of this question is that both sides loved Obama which definitely was not the case I think it’s possible and I think it’s pessimistic not realistic to outright say no. There have been plenty of periods of intense division and a literal a civil war. After the civil war there have been multiple presidents well liked and approved of by the majority of the population. You’ll never please everyone but a few presidents have hit approval ratings in the 8090 range in modern history. The country has gone through at least 3 or 4 cycles of intense division and has cycled back to unison and bipartisanship each time. Same will happen here all this is assuming Trump isn’t able to consolidate more power to the executive and the constitution remains in place and followed. Well one Party is 100% focused on lining their pockets and destroying the country so it’s hard to see how that would come about. Looking back through recent history Bush senior was probably the least revolting GOP tool. I will continue to be like this until we vote for real adults to serve in the house or senate. The ones that are actually working for the people who voted for them seems like a very small group. When pac money comes into play their attention is on what they have to vote for/against a bill depending on the pac money Yes possibly if we fix the money and corruption. corporations should not have the power they do in deciding politics. Also voter suppression is always trouble. fake districts that dont represent . frivolous challenges that chip away at confidence. Voters now accept lies from politicians and shrug it off.. One cannot compare Trump to any US president. Just compare his actions. His insurrection and felonies. What he said about women. What he says about American patriots. Setting free sixteen hundred felons. Withholding millions that our government authorized to Ukraine unless Ukraine investigates the Bidens. I don’t think we will recover unless we get rid of the two party system that forces people to one side or the other or until we experience a horrible tragedy that brings America together again. The only way is through elevating the literacy level of the American public. And trump has made it nearly impossible. On purpose. The problem is that 99% of the Right” and maybe 80% of the Left” are controlled by aging LAZY Baby Boomers. They all need to retire now and let the people who have a real stake in the future actually run this country. The Right’s plan to send this country back to some imaginary time in the past when things were better for white people isn’t a great strategy as evidenced by what’s happening NOW. The ECONOMY is in a TAILSPIN and tariffs will drive prices for everyday items up for everyone. It’s crazy. Yes and no. I think we will have another president one day with broad public appeal but I dont think itll be a Democrat or a Republican. The Democrats are so disliked that Trump even after shitting on the constitution taking bribes in broad daylight and putting our economy at risk of collapse is STILL more popular than them. At the same time Republicans are allowing all this to happen and even taking things farther by threatening to cut Medicare medicaid and social security all of which will turn ALOT of people away from the party. I think people are pretty fed up with both sides at this point. Its a great time for a new party to come together drawing the moderates from both sides into what could hopefully be a more balanced and representative party than either of the ones we have now. To do that though someone will have to appear on the political scene with not only a strong message that people can get behind and platform they can support but the money and backing to run against both Republicans and Democrats and actually win. Thats a very tall ask right now but if the Democrats continue to prove useless and the Republicans start stripping away peoples healthcare and retirement money it starts to become alot more likely. If you actually talk with people about their real values outside of the sport of political tribalism people are not that far apart. Forces are fueling this tribalism will have to be defeated/marginalized before we can come back together on our shared values. This will require making the billionaire class afraid of getting involved in government. Again? The last one was Washington and there werent even Democrats and Republicans then. Yes actually. At risk of sounding cheery and optimistic I think theres a politics after Trump that is quieter and calmer. Presidents have a large role in shaping political and general culture but expresidents dont command nearly the same cultural relevance. His entire personality and brand is built on creating and escalating conflict to attract attention. It works great for campaigning it really doesnt work when it comes to actual governing. His base goes nuts for it sure but it worked a lot better last time when he was riding a good economic wave being restrained from his worst impulses and picking culture fights that are easy to claim dubious victory in. This time he has until March of next year to turn around an entire economy that is already heading in the wrong direction and his tendency to pick internet fights comes off as just irritating. Were only a couple of months in and people are already a little sick of it even on the Republican side. In three and a half years in the middle of a presidential election thatll likely be loud and nasty due in no small part to him I think people will want something very different. If the Republicans in Congress were to ever find their spines and get behind John Thune he could be president within three weeks with a little bipartisan support from the senate democrats to end the constitutional crisis now sitting in the White House Not likely I am Republican and I’ll say this about my wife and I we were open to hearing democrats candidates out. I used to be able to kind of see some points Bernie sanders and his people were saying but then Bernie always sold out. I was actually rooting for tulsi Gabbard when she ran and I believe she would have gotten support from both parties but the democrats screwed that up. Anyways my point is I’m a right wing Republican with some independent views and my wife and I have them chances however when you talk to democrats I have never really come across that would ever even tolerate the thought of giving someone with an R next to their name a chance. Not likely because the president we really need won’t be picked by either party because they will only tell the unbiased truth. We could have Betty White elected President and half the country would find a reason to hate her. Best chance is to have a Republican that is liked by moderate democrats. I don’t see any chance of the opposite. That would require a true left leaning populist and the absence of authoritarian propaganda I think itll take some sort of war somewhere that is instigated by means the general populace agrees we should go to war. Itll take some outside tragedy or influence that gives people a reason to come together. Bush had middle of the road approval ratings from inauguration until 9/11 until it shot up to 90% and he averaged 60% for his first term before. It would take a tragedy followed by someone being a great leader. Even empathy has been weaponized. Both parties seem to think pouring money on a problem is the way to solve it rather than both parties working together and government motivated by the solutionoriented problem solving of the general populace. Big money has corrupted the body politic but that doesnt mean that most Americans cant see both sides of a situation. Eventually well unite because were just so darned tired of being divided well remember who we are and a leader will appear that remembers who we are too. Fear cant drive the future were too industrious and resilient for that. Whats left of the American spirit after this nuclear warfare of the human soul is over will rise from the ashes. It’ll take some Major national event like being openly attacked before we see America unite behind a single leader. GW Bush was hugely popular for about 4 years because he was seen as a leader during a crisis. He was our Capt America 🇺🇸 if you will. Until all the stuff came out about how he and his administration manufactured the wars but that’s another discussion. We were attacked he was our leader and we united behind him as a country. Yes. People tend to view history linearly and extrapolate out from current trends but in many ways it’s cyclical. Unfortunately I doubt we will ever see it until the extremes from both sides go away. Its becoming increasingly unlikely that well even have Presidents again much less universally liked ones. The United States will probably cease to exist as a democratic nation before that happens. We haven’t had a president that was wellliked by both parties” since probably Eisenhower. How about we start by getting both parties *cough cough Republicans* to only nominate reasonable people who will negotiate in good faith and accept a rational compromise? Quite possibly not but my wish is that we return to mutual respect. We dont have to like a political opponent but if theres respect and some dignity well be fine. I think we could if we killed the internet. I realize how moronic that im saying this….on the internet When a politician enters the scene that actually cares about the average American and not his donors they can unite instead of divide Americans. They need to do away with the culture politics and narrow their platform to a few issues that will benefit all Americans. Keep their platform simple and concise * Health Insurance * Home Owners Insurance * Auto Insurance * Housing Costs * Equitable Wages * Childcare * College Costs I think if a politician would run with this platform they would get people from both sides to cross the aisle. Things seemed really bleak during the civil war and seemed like the country couldn’t get past it but lo and behold things changed. We will when we start teaching kids about integrity and honesty. Right now all we seem to be teaching kids is that making easy money is the best thing ever. We teach them that as long as you get money at the end then whatever you did to get it is ok. We teach them that all problems have simple solutions and that someone else will do the hard work. We are no longer teaching kids about the virtues of hard work. What they see now is that you either work hard for nothing or you make easy money from being an influencer” on Instagram or YouTube. Not with social media and the major news outlets dividing the country but their opinions instead of facts I doubt it. Seems like no matters who wins people just wanna be miserable and cry about it. I’ve been thinking a lot about the President Biden’s inauguration speech. One line really stood out Politics need not be a raging fire destroying everything in its path.” Indeed it is hard to exaggerate how much Republicans and Democrats dislike each other these days. The political polarization is fueled by scorchedearth policies depictions of a modern culture war from the mainstream media and the unending desire by the Legislative branch of government to shove through and/or block bills designed to shift power either from Left to Right or Right to Left. Where do we go from here? How do we become better? What does unity entail? Our political division has reached an unhealthy level and we need to rediscover the right way to unite. It’s OK to hold onto your values. It’s OK if you don’t always see eyetoeye with everyone on every little issue. The goal shouldn’t be trying to convince everyone that you’re right and they’re wrong. It’s to spend a little time discussing the issues and philosophies in order to find areas of agreement no not areas of compromise…agreement. If we and our elected officials can come together and tackle one small problem at a time then the big problems will begin to diminish. Unity requires finding some common ground. As soon as we elect someone who is from neither party. It’s coming sooner than people believe. These last three elections and the actions or lack there of by both parties in Congress have sealed that fate. People still poo pooing the idea and holding onto the if you don’t vote for one or the other it’s a waste” idea that *USED* to be true but is no longer. MMW we’re going purple. Pay attention both sides have been incrementally changing strategies because they know this is happening and they’re scared. Well we have a Pope from the United States so I suppose anything is possible. Honestly I think it never was that way but we/you didn’t know it because there was no way for you to know what someone on the other side od the country thinks 😊 add now social media and digital cons with spreading fake information/narratives to push people further apart or just to gain some clicks/popularity and TADAAAAA we have the current situation 😊 More times than I can count I see people post controversial opinion just for the sake of views and creating engagement. Then add some individuals that actually agree because common sense humanity and empathy simply do not exist anymore on social media and you have a perfect storm sadly. Until there are some consequences for spreading false information things are only going to get worse. Probably not but we can get someone whos liked by most people again. I refuse to believe thst the majority of us actually cares for either party I dont believe that the vote blue no matter who or die hard Republicans make up a large percentage of our population. Most people simply want someone who is similar to what they believe in and what they witness in real life. I say this all the time but LBJ isnt viewed as a sex pest because he was able to pass the civil rights act. People are willing to forgive a lot of bad behaviors if they feel you are working for them. Most people arent looking for perfect but a similar fighter. Trump was able to convince a lot of cross party voters because of that. America first might sound cringe and terrible to people who are globalists but most people only have the capacity to care 4 levels out so personally I care about my city my state my country continent and world in that order. Once you get to the country issues I start having a hard time because of the simple fact that I usually use up my amount of empathy by then. It would be great to not have enough worries to be concerned about uyghers or starving Africans but you know I am only capable of so much. Probably not. People dont stop complaining after elections like they used to. We live in a postpolitics society beginning in the 70s questions that used to be answered by politics were taken off the table. Foreign policy how many american bases around the workd should there be and where? How much should tax should we pay and what programs should it fund. Should we allow private citizens to profit off housing or healthcare? Should we bail out the banks or automotive industies and what should we demand in return for doing so? Both parties agreed on a neoliberal consensus the government exists to facilitate business taxes should be lowered regulations minimized central planning avoided. America goes where it can around the world and influences elections to support global capitalism there doesnt need to be any public support for war abroad or the methods of policing at home. Unions should be busted social safety nets gutted. The public has a say in absolutely none of this politicians claim to have no control of proces or the economy we get dragged into bloody and immoral conflicts abroad everything is passive. Unsurprisingly most people hate this they hate the consensus but they are told that we are a democracy and politics is important etc etc and so as a result nothing gets better and everything is the fault of whoever is charge or the people blocking whoever is in charge Honestly I think it’s less about finding the perfect” candidate and more about the systems we’re stuck in. Presidents used to seem unifying partly because media was centralized and there was more shared reality. Now with social media and 24/7 news cycles people live in completely different worlds. Add in corporate money broken institutions and a ton of mistrust and any president ends up looking like a team captain instead of a national leader. It’s not impossible to change but it’d take way more than charisma like real campaign finance reform stronger civic engagement and media that isn’t owned by like five or so companies. So yeah it’s complicated but not hopeless. Just not fixable by one person. But a group with a shared goal that spreads theres a shot. We need a if not several new parties. Since 2016 both democrats and Republicans have been on a tear to recreate the crash of 08. Why else would progressive dems work to smear a populist candidate like Bernie who wanted to introduce real structural change in government and instead force in a mildly likable female candidate just to give her strategists that have been the exact same since that didnt work to make her win? Both donor parties wanted trump in to start making the breaks And again in 2020 forced biden as a candidate onto the country when bernie really was what more people wanted. Actual change. But they needed to have a democrat in who wouldnt flip the system but help make small concessions to keep the economy rolling and bring up that stock market. The breaks in the system werent removed they were either increased or rolled back enough to make sure the collapse would not happen too quickly Forward to 2024 they keep Biden in to lower the exposure opportunity for Kamala. Tim Walz is out there talking about structural change people are flocking to him. They dont want to introduce the potential for democrats to have a winning message that interferes with the second market crash they have been working towards for almost a decade. They scoop him up parade him around a little bit to keep up the guise then they tell him to ease up on the weird talk and eventually shutter his ass away to kill that momentum. His populist stink is still on Kamala a bit so they force her out to campaign with Liz Cheney to ostracize more voters. I wouldnt be surprised if they directed her to pull out her im speaking line if she saw any anti holocaust protesters but it is also plausible she thought it would have been a nice soundbite. Either way they printed that shit on tshirts to further ostracize. Support from democratic voters at an all time low? Check. Both donors classes assuring Trump gets the majority of coverage? Check. Plan for the second financial crash is coming to fruition and all the democrats who are seemingly doing nothing are indeed awaiting their payday for when markets crash and they can buy in at the bottom. Hakeem Jefferys standing up there saying what leverage do we have? Do you really think a sensible person in government wouldnt know what tools they could use to prevent the trump regime from advancing? These people are letting the plan unfold the Fed could have been using all this time to brace people for what is coming but instead was telling people markets are fine but there may be uncertainty ahead. The entire government needs to be washed out and redone. The country is divided by FOX &amp other far right media outlets. Get rid of FOX. Help fix the problem. Not unless the politicians and we the people stop labeling everyone as left or right and stop believing it’s an us versus them mentality. We need less self entitlement and more morals. The direction we’re heading in now is only going to lead us to more civil unrest and possibly civil war. I genuinely feel like we have a chance for it after the MAGA trend dies down and those on the right move back closer to center. The Cult of personality that currently exists pushes both sides to further extremes. Most people want the same general things in a government but are so convinced by outside mediums that they are bitter enemies diametrically opposed. 1. Everyone should pay their fair share of Taxes 2. Common Sense Gun Laws/regulations not taking guns away from responsible owners 3. Take care of Children Elderly Veterans and those who provide essential services 4. Improve infrastructure Roads Highways Mass transit Public Transit 5. Affordable Healthcare for ALL with choice in obtaining private insurance 6. Less government in our day to day decisions 7. Protect our country and be peacemakers not warmongers 8. Government Officials Must serve their constituents not Corporate entities. 9. Educate and prepare children to become productive and contributing members to an advanced USA. Technical skills STEM Practical skills for trades etc. 10. Make America a Shinning Beacon for the rest of the world. Lead by Example. Set the Standard for what the world can do when United. Please tell me if you disagree with these. serious comments only please When Democrats like me have the balls to stand up to the far left and centrist Republicans have the balls to stand up to MAGA and they join forces then yes we can elect a centrist president again in the mold of Clinton Carter and Ford. Not as long as very many poorly educated shitty voters will believe one sides lies not understanding they are lying just to get elected. Plus fox news” entertainment Until we can collectively agree on what certain facts are I dont think so. Facts are facts and it seems to be that everyone decides what their own facts are you cant run a nation like that. Media and entertainment may have gone a little too far to make that possible. The constant access to tailored news content means the parties can keep up their messaging twentyfour seven and the American people who follow politics regularly never get a break from party grievances. But I think one of the reasons the president can’t been seen as a neutral leader as was previously the case when there was an idea that once you elevated to president you can leave party politics behind is partly the extreme personalities of recent presidents and the evolvement of the president to party mascot. The current president IMO is the most egregious example as I think an argument can be made that he embraces this status himself whereas other presidents were pigeonholed to that position by the opposition but of course that take has some bias baked in and someone more sympathetic to the GOP would refute that and even argue the opposite. I think another big factor to all of this is the ineffectiveness of the legislative branch. Our congress has become so gridlocked the best way for senators and representatives to enact their will is to cede power to the executive branch and then act as hypemen for their party’s candidate. In recent times that has just proven to be more effective way of governing but it’s also the road to dictatorship and we see the executive branch is currently trying to convince the judicial branch to cede its own power. We won’t have a respected by all President until the elites are voted out because our federal government lost its way decades ago and became a swamp club instead of a representative government. The lies that’s trump’s problem. This what set me off back in 2015 everything this guy says is a friggin lie. And what’s really pissing me off now is he is blaming Biden for everything. The stock market was good today it’s because of me 3 days later it’s down it’s Biden’s fault. Last year he said the only reason the stock market was doing well was because of him. He keeps saying this country would be in a world of shit if he’s not president it will be a bloodbath. This guy is a friggin idiot. I don’t understand how people voted for this we all knew what was going to happen. Since when does Americans prefer authoritarianism over freedom and democracy since when do we stick up for Russia and throw Ukraine under the bus. Again with the lies about Ukraine starting this war with Russia. I can’t believe that everyone is ok with him making billions of dollars while in office it’s not what an American president does. Our allies now are Russia??? So this bill will probably pass. So that will raise everything for us and the billionaires get $4 trillion dollars in tax cuts did his voters not hear this before they voted. Now I hear that your child is independent at age 8 so that mean you have to pay for his doctors and dentist and is thus child still being claimed on your taxes? The big problem here is the people that voted for him if you look and listen they pretty much the same definitely undereducated and lack of reading skills. So what the hell are you going to do when you’re 6 kids all get sick and a couple of them have toothaches and you have to pay out of pocket. This $4 trillion dollars that they’ll get will have an affect on this country for years and years. Nit only are you making history but you’re the blame for all if this. Not as long as one if the biggest platforms is the death of unborn humans. The red robes of abortion are an abomination. It’s a hill worth dying on. Not until several decades later. Gotta remember was extremely unpopular when he left office and now he’s ranked consistently in the top 10 presidents. Post 74 As global tensions rise how can ordinary citizens prevent war escalation? With rising geopolitical tensions around the world — including Europe the Middle East and Asia — theres growing fear that isolated conflicts might evolve into something much bigger. Im not an expert but Im deeply concerned about how ordinary people like us should respond * What can we *realistically* do to reduce the risk of global conflict? * Are there historical examples where citizenled movements prevented war? * What kind of advocacy international cooperation or pressure on governments is effective? Would love to hear from those with political science history activism or diplomatic backgrounds. Let’s share insights on how to avoid war rather than just survive it. . This is a subreddit for genuine discussion * Please keep it civil. Report rulebreaking comments for moderator review. * Dont post low effort comments like joke threads memes slogans or links without context. * Help prevent this subreddit from becoming an echo chamber. Please dont downvote comments with which you disagree. Violators will be fed to the bear. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Voice or no voice the people can always be brought to the bidding of the leaders. That is easy. All you have to do is tell them they are being attacked and denounce the peacemakers for lack of patriotism and exposing the country to danger. It works the same in any country.” Hermann Goering We are being attacked invaded! Trump I think about the only thing we can do is keep exposing the lies on the domestic front. As for conflicts like the genocide in Gaza and the invasion of Ukraine Im not sure we can do anything. I think ordinary citizens need to get off the rage train and start helping out their neighbours. It’s a lot easier to get an angry divided and scared population to get into a war. The rage juice is making everyone insane and it’s happening globally at an individual level. It depends upon the source of the problem. With war it doesnt take two to tango. One nation can start and wage a war on its own accord. Such nations need to be deterred with the threat of force. For those in European democracies that should involve supporting a strong defense so that they can deter the Russians. With Trump practically allied with the Russians they need to arm up so that they can defend themselves in the absence of US support or possibly worse. In a nation such as the United States that has a president who wants to make war on his own people it would behoove citizens to find ways to get the military to side with the masses and not cooperate with the administration. The war that Americans should fear is not an invasion of foreign lands but a military deployment at home. * What can we *realistically* do to reduce the risk of global conflict? Nothing until your next election and then vote heavily for someone who doesnt have a prowar stance. Even in a FPTP system like the UK and US huge swathes of voters actually voting in line with a specific policy brings about change as both parties scrabble to grab those votes next time. * Are there historical examples where citizenled movements prevented war? Not really. The first Britons to fight in WW1 were in London where prowar and antiwar protesters met in the street and ended up scrapping. A million people marched in London against the war in Iraq. No difference. Protests against bombing Libya. No difference. By the time it is obvious a war is brewing unless there happens to be an election very soon theres nothing you can do. * What kind of advocacy international cooperation or pressure on governments is effective? The only power that is consistently proven to effect government policy is voting and convincing others to go out and vote. Basically everything else is part of a huge macro economic and political system that even the people at the top have limited ability to influence. Vote for free trade and lifting the poor. That was one of the biggest lessons learned after WWII. When markets are globally interconnected and even the poor have something to lose the cost/benefit of war goes away. The biggest sign that a country is gearing up for war is when they isolate their economy. At that point while the oligarchs will be fine they will be so crippled economically that invading other countries becomes an attractive option. I think you assuming the average individual has a bit more political agency than they actually have We’re all just riding the wave In America start gardening connecting to your community and learn how to defend yourself and others. Whenever there’s talk of war it’s worth asking who decides who profits and who pays the price? The people pushing for war are almost never the ones who fight it. It’s not their children in the trenches. It’s ours. It’s workers from all sides who are sent to kill each other while the wealthy keep their distance… and their profits. Again and again it’s the same story fear division sacrifice… and someone else gets rich. If we want peace we have to start by refusing to be used against each other. Reject polarization and be skeptical/critical of big actions and big inactions. Don’t know what rock you crawled out of but the globe has been going through global tensions in the latest since 2014 11 years. And that just the last decade. I say this as a 22yr veteran who served 9 combat tours since 2007. Of course retired now . Have seen and lived the Iraq conflict3x Afghanistan2x watched the ISIS caliphate in Iraq post Saddam turn to the ISL carnage that is now a post wreck called Syria1x. Trained Khurds Pesh Merga to defend against the Turks Army. Read in on sitreps on Saudi / Yemen conflict. The multi year NATO and Somali Pirate game to the recent Houthi pirating and misslile attack on global shipping. The Al Noosra in Southern Africa with slaughters of innocent women and children to convert radical Islam. Then Lest we forget the Putin Special Operation turned 3 year war that Biden could have quelled diplomatically before it started. Of course the Crimera seizure under Obama. And the same no help to Georgia while Putin overthrew their semi democratic govt. Of course the entitled university kids favorite. The Israeli payback on Hamas again after years of rocket attacks and one music festival turned slaughter. We won’t vote you with the Hezbollah skirmishes during this time line. The Chinese PLA harassing the Philippine southern Islands fishing and shipping industry to include the Vietnamese Navy and also Taiwan…….You’re worried now? Hint live your life to the fullest and have a positive impact on people within your hugging reach. You do not and will not have control over the evil and tyranny that is the world outside of your village city or country. Help those close and keep the peace within your community. You cant. The best you can hope to do is control when and where the violence starts... by starting the violence yourself when you get drafted surrender and convince your friends to surrender asap. To reduce the risk of a new WW I think the most important thing to do is to stop reading massmedia. This will allow for public fear to instantly disappear meaning they will stop supporting the warmongering politics of their governments. Carefully think it over before sending aid and advisors. It has a way of escalating into sending troops. The USA war in Vietnam began with aid and advisors just like the USA involvement in Ukraine. Post 75 Do recent political events in 2025 make the TrumpHitler comparison more historically grounded or is it still mainly political rhetoric? The TrumpHitler comparison has been a recurring and controversial talking point often dismissed as partisan rhetoric. However in light of several significant events in 2025 — such as Trump’s increasingly aggressive rhetoric toward political opponents his continued legal battles being reframed as political persecution by loyalist media statelevel moves to defy federal court rulings and rallies featuring openly authoritarian language — I’m curious whether this comparison has gained more historical weight in people’s eyes. So my question is Given these recent events do you think the TrumpHitler comparison is becoming more historically grounded or does it remain mostly a case of inflammatory political rhetoric? I’d love to hear perspectives from people with a background in history or political science as well as anyone who’s reevaluated their stance on the comparison in light of current developments. . This is a subreddit for genuine discussion * Please keep it civil. Report rulebreaking comments for moderator review. * Dont post low effort comments like joke threads memes slogans or links without context. * Help prevent this subreddit from becoming an echo chamber. Please dont downvote comments with which you disagree. Violators will be fed to the bear. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Yeah… so… Trump literally already tried to overturn democracy on January 6th and now he gets another shot at it because half our country really truly believes in American exceptionalism rooted in Christian values they believe so therefore nothing like fascism could ever happen here. We literally all witnessed it on TV they chanted hang Mike pence” and Trump said nothing for two hours. The man who tweets about EVERYTHING said nothing for two hours about an insurrection for HIMSELF. He was right down the road. He had just been there giving a speech like 5 min prior. Everyone was calling him. Literally all his staffers say he was happily watching it on TV talking about how much people loved him. To make matters worse he only doubled down insisting the election was rigged for the next 4 years. And convincing the Nazi voters to also believe the FBI and Justice system was rigged. It’s been time. The man already tried to overthrow democracy once. He’s trying to do it again obviously. Head in the clouds. YES HES HITLER. This administration pays a foreign prison so that they may send people away based on the color of their skin the language they speak &amp alleged tattoos. We send them to a prison in a country that isn’t their own country or ours. And these people have no due process. Auschwitz wasn’t in Germany. Pulling funding for arts and sciences? Universities? Targeting states where the resistance is the strongest blue states This man is a traitor to his country and people need to fucking recognize it. Wake the fuck up. It hasn’t been mainly political rhetoric” since at least January 6. The similarities are shocking and the parallels that have been drawn were not just empty rhetoric. Now he’s just play by play copying the Hitler playbook. Anybody who denies the repetition of history is willfully ignorant of it. Political rhetoric? They’ve started giving out life sentences to Spanish ppl without trial. Thats not rhetoric theres ppl being tortured every night in El Salvador while you sleep peacefully. Its far beyond rhetoric Trump checks off a lot of the boxes for fascism. * Toxic nationalism with an aggressive foreign policy. * Overt racism. * Open embrace of violence as a political weapon. * Authoritarian populist leadership. * A desire for press censorship. * Appeal to a mythical heritage. There are a couple of elements of fascism that are lacking Firstly Trump is not a corporatist. This word does not mean what many on the left think that it means. Corporatism is what distinguishes fascism from gardenvariety rightwing authoritarianism. Corporatism is the effort by government to organize society into groups that serve the state. Example of this under Hitler were his elimination of labor unions and replacing them with his own proNazi unions and replacing youth groups such as the Boy Scouts with Nazi alternatives such as the Hitler Youth. This is the bundle of sticks from which the term fascism is coined. Trump is not doing this. Secondly Hitler was a passionate ideologue. He had a grand vision for a German empire that would endure after he was gone. Trump appears to have no ideology at all. He is in it for the control freak power and the grift. So Trump is really closer to a mob boss than a fascist. But that may be a distinction without a difference. He still poses a threat to democracy and we will need to rely on the courts and federalism to combat it. The major parties are proving to be useless. For shorter explanation in talking about a rise in illegal immigration Trump stated that illegal immigrants were poisoning the blood of our country”. A statement that is made exactly out of mein Kampf. I don’t think it’s a crazy comparison but it results in an emotional reaction that makes it fairly useless for most conversations. Hitler is also mostly out of living memory at this point so any nuanced sense of who he was is not widely held. A more apt comparison would be Vladimir Putin who Trump seems to admire. He’s also a modern figure so people have a more nuanced understanding of him. I think Trump is somewhere between Putin Hungary’s Orban and Turkey’s Erdogan with a bit of North Korean antics thrown in best golfer ever! genius! solves problems just by staring them down! For me hes more like a wannabe Mussolini at this point. Hasnt progressed into Hitler territory yet. I think authoritarian tendencies is apt enough but specifically using Hitler for what amounts to some similarities that also exist in many authoritarian regimes in history really feels like it downplays the level of evil that Hitler was to me. Go watch The Rise of Hitler on Prime. Three episode look at Hitler in the 20s and 30s. Shocking similarities. I cant stand MAGA whining when the comparison is brought up. Call a spade a spade. Whats he gotta do announce a final solution the immigrant and transgender problem for people the sleepy moderates to get it? I think it’s similar but distinct. There’s the term competitive authoritarianism coined by Levitsky that helps explain Trump very well. The democracy and institutions can remain intact but they backslide and are not as ironclad as they once were. Under the Nazis the institutions disappeared completely and Hitler was able to consolidate power and eliminate the opposition very quickly. Hungary is perhaps a better analog for the U.S. moment right now than Nazi Germany. There’s also something to be said about a history of democratic norms. I don’t think they were as well established in Germany during the interwar period and certain paramilitaries longed for a return to rule of the Kaiser. That’s not to say that some people today don’t want a strongman to rule but democratic values and popular consent are much more essential to gaining and maintaining power in the U.S. You still have to operate within the democratic framework. TrumpHitler is not a directly accurate comparison I feel Ive found a better one Trump is more comparable to a former president whos playbook he has been following to the letter Andrew Jackson Lets go through their checklists Defying courts to get what they want? CHECK Relocating/deporting/incarcerating specific demographics and thats just the less brutal end of that spectrum? CHECK Claimed an election was stolen from them to get into power? CHECK Isolationism nationalism and tarriffs? CHECK Populist? CHECK Ultimately consolidating power in the executive branch via appointing friends/loyalists? DOUBLE CHECK Weve had a president like this before. Its not the end of democracy like some people like to say. He is following Jacksons playbook to a T but people seem to k ow more about the Nazis which is why the Hitler comparisons exist I think it is historically grounded in the sense that Trump is poised to become the great enemy to the nations of the world like Hitler was. Its not necessarily a commentary of how evil Trump is he is though its more of the prospect of everybody else unifying against him. Its sort of like they did with Napoleon who was not not a supervillain type of evil that Hitler was but he was kinda the Hitler of his time. And like others have said Americas descent into authoritarianism does mirror what happened in Germany in the 1930s. If somewhere there exists a Hitler comparison chart Trump is speed running it like he’s on some kind of blitz. You can’t look to the past for prescriptions on current events. For every parallel between Trump and Hitler there are a hundred differences between the recent history of the US and Germany’s preHitlerian era. Simultaneously you can do this same mixandmatch with the US and lateRepublican Rome and the US with the late era of the ancien régime in France all of which actually ended up going in wildly different directions. Nazism was a supernova situation that blew itself out in the course of a dozen years. With Rome you saw a century of political violence erode a state built upon public institutions into a four hundred year autocratic imperium. In France you saw a quarter century of revolutionary and reactionary violence the rise and fall of an empire and ultimately significant social progress when all is said and done not to mention spreading the seeds of progress and revolution across Europe. You might read what I just wrote and say who cares totalitarianism or autocracy came in all those circumstances” but all I’m trying to say is that if you look into history it’s easy to find all kinds of parallels to the present day. But nothing about human history is inevitable. There’s no such thing as if X happens then Y will happen.” There’s no predictive theory of history. Also this isn’t meant to be a message of optimism either lmao. None of those three scenarios are good ones for the people that live through it even if we may benefit in hindsight from the results of something like the French Revolution which was heavily reliant upon the prior American Revolution happening the way it did. Over twentyfive years of calamity and titanic warfare in Europe that left millions dead societies in ruin and a terrifying revolution in militarism that turned nations into war machines makes the legacy of the French Revolution a very costly one indeed. The decline of Republican Rome into the Caesarian era literally gave several successive generations a litany of wars and massacres against fellow Romans political purges that turned into arbitrary death festivals and chronic social anxiety that left people eager for a bona fide autocrat to rule. I don’t need to restate what happened with the Nazis but the last 60 years of US history bear little actual resemblance to the 60 years preceding Hitler’s rise in Germany. If I had to say which of three examples I think we resemble most it’s Rome but only on a superficial level. Our governmental and class systems were so completely different the media and material environments are wholly unlike each other. Just remember that nothing Hitler did was actually newfangled by him. The Nazis didn’t invent false flags they weren’t the first ideological zealots to benefit from a trial run takeover they weren’t the first to exploit weak and fragile young political institutions. If we focus too much on one historical example when trying to understand the present you end up seeing it everywhere just like when you buy a new car and suddenly see it everywhere. Those cars were already there. The examples you see in the past in one instance are present elsewhere too and still had different results. I think the comparison is grossly unfair to fascists and nazis. They actually believe in something. Trump on the other hand does not. Pieces of what hes doing and attempting to do can be labeled fascist nazi imperialist isolationist and some even socialist or communist. So the comparison is not historically grounded at all. Doing that is like looking for patters in random numbers. If you hunt hard enough you will say look! There is a pattern thats what it is. But there is no pattern. Theres nothing there to see but chaos. Yes to both. Jokes aside comparing Trump to Hitler does more harm than good to antiTrump rhetoric. Dictators through history threaten political opponents all the time. And once they seize power their opponents are disposed of one way or another. It doesnt take a comparison to the worlds most infamous person in history to make this point. Further Nazi Germany was far worse than even what we have now. That isnt to say we couldnt get there but many authoritarian regimes have come and gone without replicating Hitler. And a comparison at this time comes off as hyperbolic. Albeit a warning we should perhaps take seriously. Finally there are some significant parallels between fascism and the MAGA movement. But the thing to remember here is that fascism was a product of the time and culture in the early 20th century. Its like comparing classical music to modern music. One took years to fully form a symphony the other a few months to write a pop album. The German people during the early 20th century had a lot to legitimately be made about. MAGA is full of a bunch of frustrated people who are mostly upset based on lies theyve been fed for decades about who is to blame for their frustrations and discomfort. Understanding those peoples frustrations and the dismantling the lies with sympathy removing the barrier of us vs. them should have been the aim for years now. We may be past that point for many. There’s a great series on Netflix that does a great job explaining how hitler and other dictators came to power and ruled. It’s called how to be a tyrant” and it uses factual information and video along with comedy to explain this process. Trump is definitely following the book” [removed] It grounded in that Trump is a fascist. But also. Hitler is not the only fascist or authoritarian. There are aspects of Hitler that are unique to Hitler. And there are aspects of Trump that are unique to Trump. Trump didn’t start WWIIITrump didn’t genocide anyone in Americathough you could argue he supports foreign genocides like past US presidents and Trump didn’t lead to the US being conquered by foreign powers and subsequently deMAGAfied”. I think this context is important in light of certain discourse. Like I doubt there will ever be an American Nuremberg and I doubt future Americans will see Trump in the same light as Germans see Hitler. I say this because the people who support Trump now will continue to support him when he leaves office. There won’t be laws implemented to criminalize Trump support nor will children specifically be taught about the evils of Trumpismparents will claim this is political indoctrination. All of this means that after Trump leaves office and eventually passes away his policies will be inherited by the next generation of republicans who will carry on his legacy. Some decades after Trump is gone there will be some new Republican politician who fights for the same things as Trump and he will be seen as Hitler” as well causing people to forget about Trump. It’s like how nowadays people don’t really talk about George W Bush. I would argue that the TrumpHitler talking point went from political to historically grounded when Trump attempted his own little Beer Hall Putsch to remain in power over the democraticallyexpressed will of the people on January 6th 2021. He is obviously different but he is no less authoritarian in the places that count and his attacks on the press AND members of the outgroups that Republicans are targeting ethnic minorities immigrants LGBT persons women have *strong* historical precedent with fascist and Nazi policies. He is still somewhat constrained by some of our institutions but he remains the single greatest threat this country has ever faced in modern times along with his thralls that make up the vast VAST majority of todays Republican Party. Conservatives are evil theres just no two ways about that at this point. It’s not that Trump is Hitler but the comparison is less about individuals and more about patterns. Undermining courts framing legal accountability as persecution encouraging loyalty over law and normalizing authoritarian rhetoricthose are real warning signs. Historians like Timothy Snyder have pointed out that authoritarianism creeps in through familiar systems. The conditions aren’t identical but the playbook echoes. So yeah for many the comparison feels less like hyperbole now and more like a serious historical concern. Its never been political rhetoric some people were just correct earlier than others It’s not just rhetoric. It’s one of the favorite tools of the Democratic Party. They finally gave a name for the tactic Bork”. It means to obstruct a candidate for public office by defaming or vilifying them. It was coined when Senator Ted Kennedy destroyed Supreme Court nominee Robert Bork with a very harsh inflammatory speech. It was the first such defamatory attack on a Supreme Court justice nominee. The Republicans were caught off guard and were unable to mount a defense. I started paying attention to politics in 1964 when the Democrats successfully portrayed presidential candidate Barry Goldwater as likely to start a nuclear war. Since then the Democrats have tried to tarnish every Republican candidate as a racist or a fascist. It’s all BS. Goldwater became an elder statesman in the eyes of Democrats after he was no longer a Presidential threat and when he was the first Republican to tell Richard Nixon he was through. Racist Presidential candidate John McCain became a hero when stopped a Trump bill with a thumbs down. When racist Mitt Romney turned against President Trump he became a hero to the Democrats and is no longer a racist. Playing the racist Fascists card is losing its effectiveness at least against Trump because it’s been shown to be a phony ploy. History teacher here. On the one hand I kind of find the comparison lazy and clichéd because there are so many authoritarian dictators and dictator wannabes besides Hitler that are probably just as good of a comparison. On other hand insisting on precision of historical parallels seems overly pedantic when our democracy is in such peril. Like If youre in a swamp and someone warns you about an hungry alligator charging toward you by saying watch out for the crocodile! Its not really the time to lecture them on the difference between crocodiles and gators. I think better candidates and policies might attract more voters. Hate only goes so far. Hes more like all the populist authoritarians throughout history who didnt become like Hitler. The notion that Trump would engage in genocide is baseless catastrophizing. I think Trump is too incompetent to be compared to Hitler. Now Mussolini however that’s a different story. The goal of the comparison isn’t some current onetoone match between the reich and Republicans but a warning that dickering over why aren’t they burning Jews now” doesn’t help us prevent the burning of Jews Muslims or Black folk when they find they have no real resistance to overcome. More grounded. The only saving grace we MAY have is the fact that Trump seems so much less intelligent than Hitler was but he is surrounded by others who make up for it. His extreme ego might make it more difficult to reign him in if he isnt 100% on board with all the future plans though. If Hitler was one end of a spectrum would he be closer along that spectrum toward Hitler than most Presidents? Yes. Is he comparable to Hitler? No you would have to be horribly naive and ignorant of Nazis atrocities to think that. It’s the same tired rhetoric that gets trudged up every time there’s a republican president. It’s the equivalent of republicans using the socialist moniker. [removed] No one should seriously compare Trump to Hitler. Hitler absent his demonic evil was at least a courageous soldier. Trump is a draft dodger. Hitlers early life was horrible and whatever he got at least before he became a monster was earned. Trump has had everything handed to him from childhood and never worked a day in his life. Within the context of his evil and insanity it could be reasonably argued that Hitler did want the best for his people Trump cares only about Trump America be damned he doesnt care. If America fell tomorrow as Trump seems to be working toward Trump would just walk away and befoul another country. Are there fascists we cant compare to Hitler? I think any tyrannical or fascistic leader especially if they base their support in nationalism are rightfully compared to such a person. The fact that he CAN be compared on so many different dimensions is concerning enough. Hopefully the far left will one day learn that indiscriminate overuse of the words Nazi and fascist and continual comparisons to Hitler prove no points win no arguments do morning to further the Democratic agenda. Its all been done and quite frankly its LAZY. fwiw go tell a Holocaust survivor that Trump is Hitler. I hope they punch you right in the mouth 👊🏻❤️ [removed] It looks as though Trump has been very transparent with his proposed policies and is working very hard for the American people to even the playing field with trade. He denounces violence and warefare as a means of resolving conflicts. Hes eliminating fraud in our government. Hitler was an aweful person. Donald Trump is a really good person who stands on good moral principles. Its rhetoric. I think its mainly political rhetoric. We dont use Hitler as a slur because of his politics we might as well use Stalin or Putin as a slur in that case. We use Hitler as a slur for the World War he started and especially for the genocide he tried to accomplish. We use it to decry a murdering madman. War and genocide are so far removed from Trump that comparison with Hitler is just a political slur not rooted in anything of substance against those specific points that would warrant that slur. Post 76 Imagine you didnt know anything that ever happened after 1787. What system of electing a president seems like it would work best without hindsight knowledge? Ideally using precedents you could point to as things you are improving upon or are good examples to copy. You can also decide how long the terms are and how many terms can be served if you wish. I kinda think something like the Republic of Venice and their doge elections would be plausible in those days probably for the single 7 year term that had been proposed originally as something that could get broad enough political support to be a serious alternative to what was actually enacted. What options do you go with? . This is a subreddit for genuine discussion * Please keep it civil. Report rulebreaking comments for moderator review. * Dont post low effort comments like joke threads memes slogans or links without context. * Help prevent this subreddit from becoming an echo chamber. Please dont downvote comments with which you disagree. Violators will be fed to the bear. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* It totally depends on what you want the Presidents job and powers to be and the degree to which you want your system to be antimajoritarian. Personally I am a fan of an atlarge representative Parliamentary system it results in a clear and selfregulating mandate for executive function and doesnt allow the possibility of gerrymandering. guess where I live If I didnt know anything other than what was known after 1787 Id have the same system they came up with The United States was not even remotely as centralized in its identity as it is today. There would be no worries about what was best for the Union it would be what was best for my state The Electoral College was a compromise necessary to ratify the Constitution. No ratification = No United States I think the house of representatives work Like the EC but all small units.. Alot of commonwealth countries do it this way but you dont actually vote for the party leader For a bunch of dudes who had just overthrown a monarch who was trying to clawback power from Parliament it was naive for them to have believed that subjecting the king to elections was an adequate check and balance. They were onto something with the president vs vicepresident dynamic that they had originally but it didnt go far enough. An appointed executive committee with each of the members rotating through the presidency for short periods would have constrained the presidencythus making the job less appealing to aspiring tyrants. They expressed great concern about possible abuses by the president but didnt think through how to engineer the job so that a dictator would not want it. Honestly the original ideas they came up with were pretty solid where we wrong was by having electors pledged to candidates wed be in a much better place if the electoral college had remained a deliberative body as it was truly meant to be. Without hindsight I wouldnt go with a president but with an executive council. Pennsylvania used a similar system in the preceding decade and Swiss cantons had been using similar systems for centuries at that point. Id have the council elected by a joint session of Congress every 4years. The other main change Id make is the election system for Congress. For the House of Representatives Id like to use Single Transferable Vote so that ideological groups that arent in competition for first place are able to get representation in Congress. While STV in particular was put into writing until the mid19th century both multiwinner elections and ranked ballots were in the milieu so putting them together... For the Senate Id propose using a Condorcet method and maybe having 3 senators per state rather than 2 so that the candidate that the bulk of the electorate whether state legislature or ordinary citizens can agree on would be the most likely to win. If were designing from scratch in 1787 with no hindsight I’d push for a system that ties leadership to *service* and *collective responsibility* not charisma or wealth. One option could be a **rotating executive council** drawn from a pool of citizens with demonstrated civic service—kind of like a jury but for governance. Council members would serve single nonrenewable terms maybe 3–5 years chosen through a combination of lottery and regional nomination. No dynasties no lifelong politicians. At the same time too often democracy gets reduced to endless deliberation—debates consultations commissions—while urgent problems fester. But real democracy isn’t just the right to be heard it’s the responsibility to decide. We need a system where once a decision is reached by such an executive council it gets implemented. This setup reduces the risk of demagogues consolidating power reinforces the idea that leadership is a duty not a career and ensures that we act on decisions. It could be paired with strong constitutional limits and a future chamber” that must sign off on longterm decisions to ensure intergenerational thinking. That might sound radical but it’s grounded in the belief that a republic is built by great men/women and by ordinary citizens willing to act in the name of the common good. The founding fathers did not understand the depth of political party partisanship that would develop. *Nothing* they could have designed in that innocence would have functioned well longterm. Not to say they didnt understand *ideological* differences deep and bitter and intense personal rivalries all that existed in the extreme. But not what would start happening in terms of political parties that would prefer damaging the country over effective governance within 20 years and ultimately destroy the whole fabric of what they put together by the 1970s. [deleted] I would argue as people did at the time that representative arent really democratic but actually a.common way for the aristocracy to use popularity contests to decide who should go lobby the king on their collective behalf. I would argue that as people did at the time having such a concentration of power in one person would be catastrophic to democratic ideals and inevitably lead to tyranny. I would argue that as people did at the time we should hold elections to make delegates whose power to speak on behalf of the people is limited to single issues and who are subject to immediate recall. Condorcet had just published his famous paper in 1785 so I would have used that method albeit perhaps in the Electoral College as nearuniversal implementation of popular votes were still a few decades away. Ooh fun. This question prompted in me an entire essay of a response and even if no one else reads it it was still a good time working through my thoughts. IMO the biggest problem here is that the leading political theorists in 1787 were operating in a world prior to the development of political parties at least as we understand them today. Factions which were the nuclei of future parties literally formed *during* the effort to form the US Constitution over certain differences in principles which appeared to be resolved more or less with the various compromises present in the final document. **Historical aside** Whigs and Tories had been present in England since 1679 but through 1787 had been primarily defined by their support for or against James the Duke of York as a successor to King Charles II this in turn was a reaction to the events of King Charles I and the Long Parliament the English Civil War the neardictatorship of Oliver Cromwell and was essentially settled by the Glorious Revolution of 1688. So while *today* we can identify Tories and Whigs as political parties in 1787 identifying as a Tory or a Whig was mostly about your feelings on absolute monarchism vs. representative government with a twist of where you stand on the CatholicAnglicanProtestant axis. Tories in 1787 were generally associated with old money landed gentry and the Anglican church while Whigs were generally associated with new money Protestant aristocrats and wealthy merchants. In the American Colonies Whigs generally favored more autonomy while Tories supported British rule. In 1787 most Tories regardless of where they were would not have been particularly keen on revising the dominant political system of the day and so the very prompt by OP more or less automatically assumes that to undertake designing a system of electing a President in 1787 marks one as a Whig. From here on Ill assume that we *dont* want a President that is an absolute monarch in all but name. **end of aside** An unstated assumption of the question is that there would be a President *at all* as opposed to something like a Prime Minister stemming from a conjoined legislativeexecutive body such as the English Parliament. If were electing a President and if that President is more than merely ceremonial then we must be operating in a system where legislative and executive power are *intentionally split* which in turn suggests that were already assuming that those two entities are set up in opposition at some level be it oversight counterbalance split duties or even one body being completely subservient to the other. This is where political parties come in. If we have a system where the legislative and executive entities each have some ability to counteract the powers of the other were hoping that *when they do so* they choose to exercise that power for the good of the country and its people and not for their personal benefit after all the whole point of splitting up power is to prevent a single powerful person or body from wielding that power in ways that are bad however we might define that in 1787. Political parties break this dynamic. Parties allow individuals *across* the different branches of government to collude to their mutual benefit choosing *not* to use their counterbalancing power and instead work to the benefit of the party over the good of the country. Further parties concentrate political influence over the political process itself not merely its outcomes such that individuals *outside* of a party who might be informed by motivations such as honor or altruism are hindered from gaining office or using their individual power contrary to the interests of the party. While party *affiliation* is a helpful shorthand for ones political views intraparty *coordination* is essentially an attempt to reconsolidate the power that had been intentionally spread across branches of government. Again this is not really understood or easily predicted in 1787. We dont really start to see political theorists start to see the problem with parties until 17961800 when a genuine dispute for leadership of political power in the United States begins and it takes another several decades for politicians to understand and refine the power of the party and for cultural norms to shift away from nonpartisan honor and toward partisan identification. So in the absence of the specific knowledge of how damaging political parties can be to a political system of separated powers the best we would probably be able to do in 1787 would be to try and counterbalance power along two different axes from centralized Federal to decentralized local and across the Legislature Executive and Judiciary. This is moreorless exactly what the Constitutional Convention of 1787 tried to do. For the question of the Presidency itself we *can* predict that regardless of how much power we allocate to the office in a *de jure* sense the actual power of the office in a *de facto* sense would be likely to change over time we could already see this in 1787 with strong and weak ministers in Parliament and even with strong and weak monarchs elsewhere. If the President is doing good for the country theres not really much of a problem to solve even if the office has a significant amount of power the danger of the absolute monarch isnt the abstract principle of the distribution of power its the risk of that power being used for bad clearly understood since at least The Prince published in 1532 and debated thoroughly by other theorists in the following 250 years. So when designing the process of electing the President the chief concern is How do we avoid or remedy the problem of a President that is using their power to ends contrary to the good of the country? and especially in the context of a situation where we already assume that their power will be at least partly constrained by the other branches of government and by decentralized/local power centers. We therefore want to elect a President who 1. is of good moral character 2. who has no allegiance to entities with incentives contrary to the good of the country and 3. who is skilled enough to utilize the power at their disposal to good ends. We also know that no assessment and election process will be foolproof or futureproof so we *also* want the ability to *remove* a President who manages to gain office despite lacking one of those key credentials or who becomes unqualified within one of these credentials while in office. Lets take these credentials in turn. Popular vote. If states started feeling left out they could merge with other states. I mean it kind of depends if were talking about like were in 1787 or if were talking about today. So if you were to bump me on the head and I were to completely forget every bit of History around the elections in the US that have occurred since 1787 my first thing looking at the system we have today is that there is not enough time for people to vote. So any basic democratic system is going to require a national holiday or even like a series of national holidays over consecutive days so everybody can go vote who wants to vote. And as for anything else I actually dont think the current system is bad in and of itself but it is completely broken because of gerrymandering and land voting. So if I had no idea about any elections in 1787 I would say well one we need a weeklong holiday where all you can do is go vote or whatever we should have it runoff system so that we can get the most moderate candidates. And obviously not every state should have the same number of votes or same weights it should be done not by state but by total population. And finally and this is just very obvious even in 1787 when would hope is you need a standardized voting system. You have to have a voting system where all the votes work kind of the same otherwise you could end up with disaster what if somebody in one States tries to push laws that while technically not in violation of the Constitution end up violating it in spirit. Suffrage ~~~~ One person one ballot. You’re automatically registered at birth. No ID required just a national registry. You’re tied to your state of residence until you change it and can only vote there. Everyone can vote at 21 the universal age for everything in my universe. If you applied for citizenship you can vote in the next election after the first one that occurs past your acceptance. Ranked choice voting for each level ~~~~ Structure ~~~~ 4 branches similar to how we have now. CoPresident Hard and soft Basically split the current responsibility of the president and cut off the military part. Soft president does all the presidential stuff” the other is the formal leader of the military. The actual vice” president is almost entirely just a backup in case one gets clipped. Their only job is to be ready to fill either roll. 8 year terms staggered. Can run more than once but not consecutive. Cannot run past 72 CoGovernorship. Each county in a state rankchoices themselves into a governor until 2 governors per state control whichever counties voted most for them. Together they would form what’s effectively the house of representatives for each state. 4 year terms. Cannot run past 76 Impartial Council Supreme Court except 7 justices. 6 randomly selected state supreme court judges from rotating state pool. Each other branch votes once to keep 3 justices to the next term 6 new 3 old. 7 year terms. Cannot run past 73 Financial counsel Basically the fed. Some arbitrary number of economic scientists ethicists and mathematicians form the fiscal branch. They control the money full stop and that’s it. No one else does. Every other branch just decides what to do with it once the budget for that year is set. Voted and promoted internally. Can be any citizen in good standing no financial crimes. Post 77 Supreme Court is split 6 v 3 ideologically. Recently there has been unity with one or more of the conservatives joining liberals. Will at least Amy C. Barrett and Chief Justice Robert Barrett join the Liberals when cases like Alien Enemies Act and Birthright and are heard on the merits? Author PsychLegalMindPost Text Earlier today on the Birthright injunction arguments case the court appeared somewhat divided but there was no division in challenging the governments position among some conservatives. After Justice Kagan lectured the government lawyer You’re losing a bunch of cases This guy over here this woman over here—they’ll have to be treated as citizens but nobody else will. Why would you ever take this case to us on the merits?” she asked. I’m suggesting that in a case where the government is losing constantly there’s nobody else who is going to appeal they’re winning—it’s up to the government to decide to take this case to us. If I were in your shoes there’s no way I’d approach the Supreme Court with this case. So you just keep on losing in the lower courts and what’s supposed to happen to prevent that?” After that in an exchange with U.S. Solicitor General D. John Sauer Amy Barrett grilled the lawyer about the administration’s plans to follow judicial rulings. Barrett began her questions from the bench by picking up where Justice Elena Kagan — a justice often found on the opposite side of the ideological spectrum from Barrett — left off. Barrett also sided with the Court’s dissenting liberals in April in a 54 decision on administration’s deportation of deporting Venezuelan migrants via the Alien Enemies Act of 1798. Weeks later Barrett banded together with Chief Justice John Roberts and the liberal justices in refusing the Trump administration’s request to halt a federal judge’s order requiring the government to pay out . It is possible some in the conservative court are beginning to recognize that the current government is going a little too far in its Executive Orders and some judicial restraints and balance requires justices to join forces with the liberals. Will at least Amy C. Barrett and Chief Justice Robert Barrett likely to join the Liberals when cases like Alien Enemies Act and Birthright are heard on the merits? . This is a subreddit for genuine discussion * Please keep it civil. Report rulebreaking comments for moderator review. * Dont post low effort comments like joke threads memes slogans or links without context. * Help prevent this subreddit from becoming an echo chamber. Please dont downvote comments with which you disagree. Violators will be fed to the bear. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* I anticipate the Birthright citizenship case is a 72 or even 90 decision. It’s about as clear textual interpretation as it gets even Thomas and Alito have their limits see Abrego Garcia decision. I suspect the Alien Enemies Act also breaks towards the liberal side but more like 54. I think Barrett will. Some years ago I would have said Roberts would definitely have as well but now I just don’t know. I would not have expected that Barrett would be more likely to adhere to the law than Roberts but here we are. If I had to guess tho I think Roberts will also side with the liberals. Enough reporting has shown he is conscious of the legacy he leaves behind as Chief Justice and I don’t think he will want it to include this. Maybe. Ive been really impressed with ACB. Shes conservative but actually believes in law over party on a lot of cases. The opposite of Thomas. Supreme Court is split 6 v 3 ideologically. I think people over estimate the unity of the 2 sides of the Supreme Court. Looking at the shows that they break rank with each other all the time. Was this written by AI? Who is Chief Justice Robert Barett? Thats not anybody and the fact that none of the replies are calling this out is sus as fuck too. Roberts is a wild card. I can see Barrett aligning with the liberal justices on both issues. Theres frankly nothing actually ideological about the birthright citizenship case. The fundamental question before the court is whether or not the 14th amendment exists. Any SCOTUS justice who holds that it does not needs to resign or be impeached. Kavanaugh ACB Gursich and Roberts I think all 4 will The case isn’t about birthright citizenship it’s about limiting in federal judges from being able to impose injunctions. The justices are listening but they’re not hearing a practical way to actually do this. Birthright citizenship is going to lose when they actually rule on that itself If the justices keep the present process in place or even define the parameters for a national injunction that’s a win for us. You can’t have the president violating the law then never bringing it to the Supreme Court as he implements his order anyway You know I almost have a little bit of hope that the recent Trump appointed supreme court members and particularly some of the older conservative justices might actually understand that their future and livelihoods are at stake if they allow Trump to become a tyrant. Or maybe even if they have some ideological backbone to be American heroes that saved democracy. Wanting to enforce your religious doctrine and used government power to moralize law is one thing. Becoming full on fascist dictators and overthrowing democracy is quite another. But its probably the first selfish reason. Alien Enemies Act I honestly think will be 63 or 72 against Trumps argument here mainly on the grounds that you cannot invoke the AEA against citizens of countries the US is not actively at war with. The only 3 who *might* go along with what Trump wants to do are Thomas Alito and Kavanaugh. I also dont see any way birthright citizenship isnt a 90 decision. Its one of the few things the Constitution is pretty blackandwhite about with very little if any room for interpretation. Im basing this mostly on the fact that they went 90 on the Abrego Garcia case showing even Thomas and Alito arent *that* blatantly partisan when theres zero coherent argument for what Trump/the GOP wants to do being Constitutional. I am also cautiously optimistic that Obergefell will hold if the court even agrees to relitigate it. I dont think its implausible that we could get 54 in favor of upholding it with Barrett and Gorsuch siding with the liberal justices. Theyve shown themselves to be somewhat sympathetic towards LGBT rights at least more than one would expect. I would have said Roberts if only on the basis that overturning only a decade old decision would ruin SCOTUS legitimacy but I know that ship sailed already and Roberts was outspokenly against the Obergefell decision. Plus theres also the massive legal can of worms that would open with regards to already legally married samesex couples. There’s a lot of cases that is going to their docket where we going to see how Kavanaugh and Gorsuch stand in terms of ideology. Think we know where Roberts and Barrett are willingly to bypass their political leanings. It is going to be interesting to see how much power they are willingly to give Trump It’s hard to predict. But I remember reading a quote in an article that said that Alito and Thomas don’t care what the mainstream media says about them but Kavanaugh does. I’d imagine ACB does and perhaps CJ Roberts. Gorsuch is more of a wild card. Of course it’s an imperfect example but that seems to be the way some of these decisions are shaking out when there are differences about the 6. Yes. I think the BRC case will be a 72 decision and I think that Thomas will actually side with the liberals along with Barrett Roberts and Kavanaugh. I think Alito and Gorsuch will side with Trump. Some of those conservative judges have shown a willingness to take the job seriously and rule based on precedent and the law while a few have chosen to cherry pick precedent and make rulings based on ideology. It’s not 6v3 it’s 4v4 with an apathetic chief justice. Barrett turned heel and Roberts doesn’t have an integrity. When the Supreme Court is as corrupt as this one it’s best not to raise your hopes. Perhaps only value we’re going to see is that even the dimmest bulbs will know how much they’ve damaged America. Barrett will absolutely flip on any immigration question. I was against her nomination to SCOTUS simply on the grounds of her adopting Haitians. Anyone who would do that cannot be trusted to put Americans first. Partisan rulings should be reviewed by a random foreign court to ensure we get an unbiased opinion. Justices don’t « join » anything. That is the whole point. No matter who appoints them. Everyone no matter which party you agree with we are all just lucky that some of our judiciaire branch can still figure out which way is north after all this administration’s spin! The Supreme Court’s 1898 decision in United States v. Wong Kim Ark interpreted the 14th Amendment to mean that nearly anyone born on U.S. soil is automatically a citizen regardless of their parents’ legal status or national allegiance. While this interpretation has stood as precedent ever since the ruling was incorrect on the grounds that it did not follow the original intent of the Constitution and instead created its own meaning. The 14th Amendment states All persons born or naturalized in the United States and subject to the jurisdiction thereof are citizens of the United States.” The key phrase is subject to the jurisdiction thereof.” This was not meant as a mere formality it carried specific legal meaning. At the time the amendment was written being subject to the jurisdiction” of the United States meant more than simply being subject to its laws it implied full political and legal allegiance. Foreign diplomats and their children for instance were not considered under U.S. jurisdiction because they owed allegiance elsewhere. Similarly children of foreign nationals particularly those who were in the U.S. temporarily or without legal status were never meant to be included. The original intent behind the 14th Amendment was to secure citizenship for freed slaves and their descendants who had been denied legal recognition under the Dred Scott decision. Lawmakers at the time explicitly stated that the amendment did not apply to children of foreigners especially those not fully integrated into American society. Senator Jacob Howard who authored the citizenship clause of the 14th Amendment made it clear during a Senate speech on May 30 1866 that the amendment was not intended to apply to persons born in the United States who are foreigners aliens who belong to the families of ambassadors or foreign ministers.” Howard emphasized that such individuals were not considered under the full jurisdiction of the United States. His statement reflects a clear legislative intent to exclude automatic birthright citizenship for those born to foreign parents who did not owe full political allegiance to the nation. By ruling in favor of Wong Kim Ark the Court effectively redefined the jurisdiction clause treating it as if it meant simple physical presence within U.S. borders. This decision ignored the deeper political meaning of jurisdiction and allegiance. Rather than applying the Constitution as it was written and understood by its framers the Court leaned on the English common law concept of jus soli citizenship by birthplace which had not been fully embraced in American legal tradition. The American model of citizenship was traditionally based on consent and mutual allegiance not geography alone. In doing so the Court did not merely interpret existing law but created new constitutional meaning. It expanded the definition of citizenship beyond what the 14th Amendment’s authors intended and beyond what the Constitution explicitly provides. This departure from the Constitution’s original meaning undermines the principle of limited consentbased government. It illustrates how a judicial ruling rather than democratic process or constitutional amendment reshaped a foundational aspect of American identity. For those that want to debate this you can literally take it from the horses mouth the draft of the citizenship clause **This will not of course include persons born in the United States who are foreigners aliens who belong to the families of ambassadors or foreign ministers.”** The supreme court did not follow the constitution but rewrote the constitutional meaning to create new law. Supreme Court justices dont side they vote for whichever party they think wins and explain their reasons in their opinion. That said Jackson Barrett and Roberts all come from the DC circuit court of appeals. They have a bias that comes from that route to the court. Not a bad kind of bias like an irrational one. More like a I know this bias. The DC circuit represents the Federal appeals and national judicial system in its way. And those judges have a first hand understanding of it. Post 78 More and more politicians having an agressive and rude attitude towards the media. How should one approach this without fueling the agressivness and creating greater distances in the political climate? See link to an example right here from a Likud member. Altough extreme in this case the same kind of attitude can also be seen in other countries as USA Turkey Russia Hungary and several others. How to battle this in the best possible way? https//www.nrk.no/video/4730c26bfb1240c0b514df2d9f024a2b . This is a subreddit for genuine discussion * Please keep it civil. Report rulebreaking comments for moderator review. * Dont post low effort comments like joke threads memes slogans or links without context. * Help prevent this subreddit from becoming an echo chamber. Please dont downvote comments with which you disagree. Violators will be fed to the bear. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* The media needs to accept that times have changed and that counting on government members to treat them with deference and respect is gone They can choose to be lickspittles of whoever is in power or they can revert to being *news* organizations seeking and reporting the truth even if it is uncomfortable for the powers that be This is tough because good news is boring. 24hr news channels are a problem because they have to broadcast a lot of editorialized programs in order to generate ad revenue and keep the lights on. Ill bring up something that I dont see discussed much in conversations around the media. It has become a much more elitist industry. Journalism used to be a largely blue collar industry that you could get into without any specialized education and youd be mentored and work your way up. It looked much more like a traditional trade with apprenticeships. But now if you look at the NYT almost everyone has a college degree. More than that a full quarter of them have Ivy League educations and outside of the Ivies its still elite schools like Duke and Georgetown and then some from flagship state universities. About 40% of the staff have *graduate* degrees also from elite schools most commonly Columbia. Meanwhile I wish I could find the exact stat on this theres somewhere between 0 and 1 veterans working there. And thats surprising given just how much the US has been involved in wars over the last few decades. Youd think youd want some people with that experience somewhere in the news room. Its good that newsrooms have become more representative in terms of race and gender but theyve basically lost diversity in terms of class and backgrounds which makes it much harder for them to remain relevant to the general public. It is a hell of the medias own making. The mainstream media has gone out of its way over the past few decades too overtly portray themselves as reactionary partisan slop media. So now it actually makes politicians look good when they push back against news outlets and insult their integrity. The solution to the lack of respect toward the media is to rebuild the reputation of the media so that it is considered a reliable source of information and a respectable institution again. But that wont happen because most big news outlets not being pieces of shit goes against the interests of the investors and owners that control them. So fuck it. Maybe the media should do their job. They are the reason we are in this situation with their 24/7 coverage of T and pushing divisive social issues. Journalists are neither celebrities nor priests. They are to report the news. If they cant deal with rudeness to theyre in the wrong field. One obvious remedy is for right wing news organisations to be called out the same way. Like so many markers of the democratic decline these attacks on reporters are only made by one set of interviewees. Bullys attack those they know they can intimidate. Trump did a great job on that ABC guy the other day. Too many journalist/stars are actually garbage interviewers. A third approach is to employ good prosecutor style interviewers. Try bullying Medhi Hasan and see how far you get. But they get these ones cancelled. They don’t see themselves as public servants. They see themselves as our own nobility ruling above the peasants and serfs. I have built several news aggregators that bring in thousands of feeds from every single format and process them using natural language processing for different purposes The media is actually failing hard and should be held accountable. It is often not failing as the GOP and its constituents would like you to believe. It’s not all fake news”. I could point out things that have gotten worse over the years but the summation is that people really do not have a reliable source of truth and relevant information within America. I’ll list off a few issues with the news. This is an incomplete list and the root cause is not in question I know they are companies that need to make money etc etc. headlines are all clickbait content is drawn out to increase eyes on advertisements increasing the noise and obscuring the issues advertisements are made to look like news articles sometimes figuring out that they are paid requires a lot of detective work. SEO pundits chosen to appear as experts are rarely well versed experts and mostly chosen for view ability news anchors have 0 qualifications outside a communications degree but constantly give their opinions steer pundits towards whatever narrative their corporation or beliefs tells them to and constantly speculate the blind leading the blind corporate press releases are the majority of the news consumed by Americans. If there is a story there is a 35% chance I can trace it back to a press release and the news company rephrased it without changing any content or adding any of their own investigations. If it is about a company that percentage is closer to 85% The list goes on and on… But the idea that someone needs to be better informed is really a bs argument. I’d claim it’s statistically impossible for the average American to stay well informed. And the ones who do read the best sources of information like axios are probably consuming a lot of garbage that negates it or missing out on really significant events that nobody is reporting on because investigative journalism is pretty much dead. I’ve noticed this in other countries but I am intimately aware of the US only and large scale global events that will affect trading. I think it is time for everyone to get aggressive towards news organizations and demand better. Extra Sources beyond my anecdotal experience 1. Lewis J. Williams A. &amp Franklin B. 2008. A compromised fourth estate? Journalism Studies 91 1–20. https//doi.org/10.1080/14616700701767974 2. Sumner P. et al. 2014. The association between exaggeration in healthrelated science news and academic press releases retrospective observational study. BMJ 349 g7015. https//doi.org/10.1136/bmj.g7015 3. Davis A. 2008. Public Relations and News Sources. In Journalism and Democracy pp. 49–65. 4. Jensen E. 2011. Scientific uncertainty in news coverage of climate change The construction of balance. Public Understanding of Science 206 803–817. https//doi.org/10.1177/0963662510388661 5. Davies N. 2008. Flat Earth News. London Chatto &amp Windus. Investigated 2000+ stories from The Times finding 80% PR/wirebased only 12% factchecked. Most of media businesses turning to shit are due to bad business models trying to keep up with the digital age and social media diets a little of which could have been avoided with a more functioning legislative branch a decade ago to put more protections in place against social media &amp algodriven slop that has brought the rest of the industry down to their level and more effective antimonopoly measures to keep local news from being gobbled up. But even then the internet more broadly has been a big problem for traditional news media which has failed to adapt to the new information landscape. It also seems like mostly a top down problem there are still a lot of decent journalists out there at the ground level but their work is being tainted with clickbait headlines or titles twisted by editors to appease corporate owners. And corporate bias aside theyre also fighting a losing battle as its not a level playing field when competing against scam businesses who figure out how to game SEO algos or places using AI to write news slop the politicians share some of the blame imo for not keeping up with regulation there. That said while angry politicians arent wrong to criticize the media their anger is kinda ironically amplified by a lot of those same root causes like social media algos that have pushed the loudest/hottest takes to the forefront. Aggressivenees is warranted has been for decades. Not one media outlet reports unbiasedly and simply reports to get clicks views or ratings. I think sometimes the media should carefully manicure their questions in a way that allows them to take the opportunity to answer with how they really want to answer let them reveal their true intentions. They really want to tell everything. Why not encourage them to talk? Why not let the world hear and see for themselves who these people really are and what they are really about. Lots of layers here. News agencies have debased themselves Mixing fact with opinion Clickbait headlines Reporting on what may happen instead of what has happened. Nothingburgers Everything is always BREAKING NEWS Choice of what to cover/prioritize Obviously a lot of this stems from news being a commodity. Slow news day? Let’s report on what may happen this gives lots more to talk about sell. The biggest issue though imo is mixing fact reporting with opinion. As a result People struggle to tell fact from opinion People look for opinion over facts to validate existing biases. Fact reporting loses its potency as people become accustom being told not just what to know but what to think. Obviously some tacit opinion will always slip into reporting for the simple fact that the act of reporting implies a reporter and any such individual or institution will have perspective which will shape framing of the narrative. HOWEVER the wholesale packaging of opinion as fact that is currently being done is a selfdefeating dead end that is destroying the epistemological underpinnings of what we understand as news and therefore destroying our ability to know about the world around us. It’s ironic that the political coalition that hates postmodernism has most egregiously damaged our ability to participate in a shared narrative. Although that isn’t to say that this is now happening everywhere. Commodifying the news weakens the news infects it with opinion conditions people to ignore/avoid the news destroys epistemology in the zeitgeist. As for what politicians should do to navigate this? My opinion is to get aggressive and performative. Facts have left the building and now it’s all about shaking feathers for the camera. Long term we need to invest in teaching media literacy and news organizations need to stop debasing themselves. The former may happen as a natural reaction to the new media ecosystem and already is to an extent. Every media revolution leads to greater media literacy over time as people adapt but this is slow and imperfect on its own. The later is unlikely to happen given the market forces of the news agency. In the meantime news will continue to languish under the dominance of opinion algorithms will sort consumers into their proper media houses and politicians will be free to use performative rhetoric with decreasing accountability. Two way street. How should the media respectfully question and honestly report the news? Youre right to flag this trend. The growing aggression from politicians towards the media reflects a deeper erosion of civic norms—and it’s not just about press freedom. It’s about trust. When leaders treat the media as enemies instead of accountability mechanisms they signal to citizens that the public square itself is a battleground not a commons. One way to counter this is not to mirror the aggression but to restore the public’s understanding of *why* a free fair and functional media matters. That means * **Reframing citizenship as responsibility not just grievance.** A healthy democracy isn’t just about demanding rights—its about contributing to shared institutions. We need to foster civic habits that encourage people to seek truth participate in dialogue and resist manipulation. * **Focusing the public debate on value creators not culture wars.** The media should do more to elevate stories of those who build—teachers carers scientists small entrepreneurs—and less airtime to those who profit from provocation. That kind of journalism builds solidarity instead of division. * **Calling out extraction wherever it hides.** When politicians attack journalists it’s often a way to shield extractive systems—whether it’s corruption cronyism or abuse of public office. We need to shift the narrative away from personality politics and toward who contributes vs. who exploits. * **Playing the long game.** We need to stop treating political communication like performance art. Shortterm outrage wins headlines but corrodes trust. The best antidote is a political culture built on longterm thinking—one that prizes institutional integrity and intergenerational accountability over clicks and soundbites. Combatting aggression with clarity not counteraggression is difficult but essential. The goal isn’t to silence critics—it’s to reinvest in the civic foundations that make democracy possible truth trust and shared responsibility. Never let them off the point. The media should just keep asking the same question for 30 minutes until they answer. It infuriates me when they let them weasel out of answering and they go on the offense. The media should not platform them unless they’re going to be held completely accountable. At that point you’re sanewashing these cooks. Thats just politicians following Trumps lead. If he has shown that discrediting and attacking news outlets works as an effective tool to silence them then other politicians will do the same. Meanwhile the population is gaslit into victimizing Trump when he is just provoking the media to play into his hands. Drawing this type of attention to yourself is just part of the con. Trump is really good at conning others like that. Every time you attack him directly it just makes him stronger and gives him an opportunity to further discredit the media. If I were a news outlet Id just snub Trump and increase coverage on a promising candidate then occasionally report on Trump when he gets in actual trouble not when he goes off on attentionseeking rants before switching back to that other shiny candidate over there. I mean its too late for that but back then thats what I wouldve done. *Far* too many people take the bait. Incredibly gullible. The media could start by reporting all the facts. The recent revelations by Jake Tapper claiming Biden’s staff hid Biden’s condition was an obvious lie. And an unnecessary lie. He knew. Maybe I dont know... stick to being objective stop using inflammatory and misleading headlines stop the gotcha line of questioning and just print facts. Most Americans have less than a grade 6 reading level. Their TV role models are criminals. The social contract is nonexistent. Job security is low as is the pay. The public is reacting and the Republicans are using it to propel to power. If we are to be honest the 3rd rails initial reason for existing was to challenge the politicians with hard hitting questions to bring the truth to light. That no longer happens with our current media which with one exception is owned by hard left individuals with an agenda. Media should NOT have an agenda other than seeking the truth. That has not been the case for decades and is why the main stream media has lost all credibility....... As they say just the facts Maam.... Post 79 People typically have rather negative views on the complexity of presidential primary elections. Contrast with the mostly direct primaries for state governors how effective do you think primaries are for picking reasonably popular nominees for governor in clear and comprehensible ways? Trying to describe the process of a presidential primary is very difficult in many cases and has a lot of points where you get bogged down with unanswered questions or ambiguities. State gubernatorial primaries however tend to have a relatively simple set of procedures and rules and also tend to be direct without delegates. Taking lessons from gubernatorial primaries do you think they at least compared with a typical presidential primary are significantly better at picking candidates for the governorship? . This is a subreddit for genuine discussion * Please keep it civil. Report rulebreaking comments for moderator review. * Dont post low effort comments like joke threads memes slogans or links without context. * Help prevent this subreddit from becoming an echo chamber. Please dont downvote comments with which you disagree. Violators will be fed to the bear. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Unpopular opinion The party boss system picked more effective candidates that didn’t have an incentive to push further and further to the extreme It wasn’t the worst Presidential elections have to deal with the electoral college and presidential primaries deal with random states that are up first instead which leads to severe flaws in candidates. Iowa primaries should not decide what candidates are competitive in Pennsylvania. All primaries should be jungle primaries preferably approval voting or multi winner ranked choice. It avoids obvious issues with firstpast the post partisan primaries. Post 80 What do you think the Trump administration is ultimately looking to achieve through guaranteed legal support for police offcers accused of crimes against citizens? They already have qualified immunity and are rarely held accountable when they bait abuse and violate basic human rights and dignity. A day in court or win in court for the average citizen against law enforcement is rare and even officers who are disciplined or fired typically maintain their jobs and benefits where they are or get rehired elsewhere. So what is a promise of even greater support from the federal level really about? . This is a subreddit for genuine discussion * Please keep it civil. Report rulebreaking comments for moderator review. * Dont post low effort comments like joke threads memes slogans or links without context. * Help prevent this subreddit from becoming an echo chamber. Please dont downvote comments with which you disagree. Violators will be fed to the bear. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Foot soldiers its easier to abuse someone when there are no consequences for that abuse. Trump wants an authoritarian state. He wants the military and police to pledge their loyalty to him personally not to the Constitution that they are supposed to uphold. In his interview with The Atlantic Kelly recalled that when Trump raised the idea of needing German generals” Kelly would ask if he meant Bismarck’s generals” referring to Otto von Bismarck the former chancellor of the German Reich who oversaw the unification of Germany. Surely you can’t mean Hitler’s generals” Kelly recalled asking Trump. To which the former president responded Yeah yeah Hitler’s generals.” https//www.pbs.org/newshour/politics/trumpsaidhitlerdidsomegoodthingsandwantedgeneralslikethenazisformerchiefofstaffkellyclaims Hitler had the military including the generals pledge their loyalty to him. It seems that Trump admires that. Trump may not be aware that some of his generals later tried to assassinate him when it became obvious that Germany was losing the war. I don’t think Trump’s reasoning ever goes much deeper than cops like me and the people who don’t like cops hate me.” The loyalty of those who are legally allowed to use force against citizens. Every fascism needs their jackbooted enforcers. He wants a police force that will be loyal soldiers in his desire for fullon authoritarianism. It really is as simple as that. Trump wants as many dissenters” silenced or if deemed necessary by him eliminated.” He wants them to be on his side unconditionally even if he releases rioters and cop killers They have undertaken a number of things that indicate they are preparing to crush any large scale protests this is just part of that. The goal is less stability and order. More violence and chaos. They are working to build wedges in sections of society to create animosity and disorder. This is how you get to maximize corruption. People will focus on the breakdown in localized law and order and lose track of the corruption of the leaders. Direct their anger at the local cop who acts incorrectly instead of the guy at the top pardoning fraudsters. Another way to contextualize this is Wilhoits law Conservatism consists of exactly one proposition to wit There must be ingroups whom the law protects but does not bind alongside outgroups whom the law binds but does not protect. There’s a huge chunk of the population that loves police. Even though leftleaning people find this bad there are entire communities that support this . What do I think the end goal is? Buying the GOP in general but Trump in particular the loyalty of every officer who fears accountability. That’s a lot of ground level authority/voters/enforcers/influence. They are working to get the cops in line with the fascist state they are setting up. They figure theyve got the military already and have neutered the courts and legislature but the support from police while strong is still somewhat varied by location. It’s a message not just to police but to anyone who plans to protest the administration that they are prepared to use excessive force to quell dissent and they will protect police officers from any accountability for doing so. Maybe if Trump actually supported police officers he wouldnt have pardoned those Jan. 6 people who assaulted police? Anything now is just political theatre and misdirection. Vigilantes with no accountability. He saw some seriously disturbed people on 9/11 and wants to power them to do his bidding. The ability to beat up undesirables with impunity then jail and/or deport them. This isn’t just about shielding officers—it’s about sending a signal. Guaranteeing legal protection for police officers accused of serious misconduct isn’t primarily about justice or due process it’s about consolidating power and deepening the divide between citizens and the state. When law enforcement becomes structurally insulated from accountability it moves from being a public service to an instrument of control. The promise of legal support is less a policy detail and more a symbolic contract if you enforce the line we’ll protect you no matter the cost. It shifts the public servant into a political actor—often acting in the interests of order but not necessarily justice. This strategy fits a broader pattern we’ve seen in extractive politics eroding public trust in neutral institutions while empowering those who can enforce a status quo skewed toward wealth fear and control. Instead of strengthening civic responsibility it treats citizens—especially the most vulnerable—as potential threats to be managed not partners to be protected. A healthy society doesn’t just ask who is being protected—it asks who is being empowered. And the more the system favors impunity over accountability the more it abandons those who actually *create* value community workers teachers parents and yes good cops too—those who serve the public with integrity not impunity. The longterm alternative isn’t to dismantle law enforcement but to rebuild legitimacy invest in public safety as a public good embed transparency into oversight and root justice in the principle that rights must be matched by responsibility—especially for those who carry a badge and a gun. If you have to ask this question you’re the reason we are in this mess. Sorry. If it isn’t blatantly obvious what he is trying to do to you or anyone you know it’s a reflection of the dissonance we live in today. Honestly it could be protections for violating Miranda rights or permission to do greater abuses on the citizenry. It is also gain favor with local law enforcement. Trump is obsessed with personal loyalty. Its about creating a loyal force of empowered sociopaths willing to ignore the Constitution human rights and common decency secure in the knowledge of legal invulnerability. I guess. these laws will help for some officers to held criminals cause thanks to them they can just be more free against criminals and its good id say. However we understand that not all of officers are that good they can use their positions for some violence and cause of it people will fear from officers and it will gain criminality cause WTF are you gonna do if you are treated better by criminals than officers. OPs headline is the first Ive heard of this and to have a productive conversation it might be useful if you included some factual reporting of the issue. That out of the way and based entirely on my own interpretation of OPs headline Im not sure what the big deal is. Police officers have the right to an attorney under the constitution the same as any other person accused of a crime. The way your question is phrased pretty much clarifies the intent. Do you really believe LEOs join the force to abuse citizenry? Seriously? Loyalty from police forces so theyll obey when he sends them to hurt protesters. Post 81 Articles of impeachment have been introduced in the house. The articles do not have party leadership support. What are the risks of pushing this vote? On Monday Rep. Thanedar files articles of impeachment against the president. Citing obstruction of justice abuse of executive power usurpation of appropriations power abuse of trade powers and international aggression violation of First Amendment Rights creation of an unlawful office bribery and corruption and tyrannical overreach. Thanedar himself said Donald Trump has repeatedly demonstrated that he is unfit to serve as President and represents a clear and present danger to our nations constitution and our democracy. His unlawful actions have subverted the justice system violated the separation of powers and placed personal power and selfinterest above public service. We cannot wait for more damage to be done. Congress must act. Thanedar has done so without the support of party leadership. Cosponsors of the motion who originally thought leadership was on board have withdrawn their sponsorship. It can be assumed that impeachment will not go through as Dems do not have majority. Although many rep. in both parties are upset with the actions of the president. In light of the low possibility of impeachment and subsequent removal from office this could be seen as vibe check of sorts with in the house and senate. There are many different actions cited in the articles of impeachment but one recent action seems incredibly clear cut and dry to me. The gift of a $400m luxury plane from the government of Qatar. The Foreign Emoluments Clause prohibits the excepting of this gift without congressional approval. Is this alone not a clear cut example of an impeachable offense in direct violation of the constitution? This seems like a valid reason for impeachment and to ignore it seems like a abdication of the the oath taken by representatives to uphold the constitution. To cite the supreme court ruling on presidential immunity On July 1 2024 the Court ruled in a 6–3 decision that presidents have absolute immunity for acts committed as president within their core constitutional purview at least presumptive immunity for official acts within the outer perimeter of their official responsibility and no immunity for unofficial acts. Where does the action of accepting a gift of this nature fall between these three designations of immunity? Why would these articles not be persued? What are the actual risks of a failed vote here? How will a scuddled vote be viewed and will it have a negative impact the Dems party leadership? How will this impact public opinion of both parties leadership in regards to midterm elections? . This is a subreddit for genuine discussion * Please keep it civil. Report rulebreaking comments for moderator review. * Dont post low effort comments like joke threads memes slogans or links without context. * Help prevent this subreddit from becoming an echo chamber. Please dont downvote comments with which you disagree. Violators will be fed to the bear. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* People seem to confuse being impeached with being prosecuted. We can impeach him 100 times. We can’t get a conviction Where does the action of accepting a gift of this nature fall between these three designations of immunity? The immunity ruling is completely irrelevant. It was all about immunity from criminal prosecution and impeachment is completely separate from that. Why would these articles not be persued? I think the big concern is that this isnt even pretending to be a serious attempt to impeach. In a typical impeachment there would be hearings in the House to both explain to the public why impeachment is necessary and to prepare to make the case in the Senate. With this impeachment attempt theres none of that going on. Its just a cobbled together impeachment pushed by one guy. It sort of cheapens the whole thing. What are the actual risks of a failed vote here? Any vote is a risk. It forces people to go on the record which creates an opportunity to attack them for whatever position they take in the next election. Some people are celebrating the idea that Republicans will have to go on the record as supporting Trump in this vote but there are also Democrats from swing districts who may take a hit from going on the record and if its doomed to fail then it may not be worth it to them. This is performative nonsense. Trump isnt going to be impeached by a House unwilling to stand up to anything else he does This is a horrible mistake. A complete unforced error. A rushed doomed to fail impeachment vote when we could have actually impeached Trump if we won the house in the midterms next year. Who is this noname Democrat single handidly blowing up the Democrat strategy for fighting Trump? This is the same as MTG constantly introducing articles against Biden. Performative nonsense that has absolutely no chance of happening. I think this is a good chance to force the GOP to back Trump. Dont just let them pretendforce them to actually vote that they support his grift and corruption. They wont be pursued because they wont pass both houses let alone prompt his removal from office. It didnt work twice before it wont work now and its just going to reinforce the precedent of lawfare between the parties in the federal government. That said its purely performative and this unknown representative is likely just trying to make a name for himself. You know it will at the very least fail on party lines the risk is it becomes the boy who cried wolf 03 you look like idiots. At this point its just theater. OffoffBroadway theater. If the Senate wouldnt convict after J6 theyre certainly not going to do so now and thats if it makes it out of the House which it wont. Impeachment wont be meaningful *until* it has gotten to the point that Republicans both elected and rankandfile are turning on him. It wasnt over for Nixon until a contingent of Republican Senators marched into the Oval Office and informed him they were going to pull the trigger. As far as the public is aware Trump hasnt done anything to precipitate that. *Yet.* MTG filed impeachment articles every other week…why do democrats care about decorum?? Now is a time to act not worry about the optics How can you convict a superman that the SOTUS conferred immunity to? Best outcome is he strokes out and then we have to deal with the couch fucker. Impeachment helps the party of the president who is being impeached. The 2019 impeachment turned the expected 2020 blue tsunami into a Democratic loss of House seats. Dems expected for Trump to have fewer votes in 2020 than he had in 2016. Instead he had 11+ million more votes in 2020. The failure of the blue tsunami helped the GOP to flip the House in 2022 and keep it in 2024. The surge in turnout that Trump added in 2020 allowed him to be in pole position and win a popular vote plurality in 2024. So there is a certain irony that we have Dems eager to nail Trump by using the same tactics that have put him here now. Impeachment and Dobbs were both bad gambits that appealed to party leadership gut feeling but not to political science. Impeachment causes the party of the president to circle the wagons around their leader. Those who may have otherwise stayed on the sidelines due to lack of interest become more engaged when they perceive their party leader as a martyr who is under attack from the opponent. If I was a Republican I would be praying for impeachment. After the failed 100 days with falling approval ratings and the hemorraging of their marginal supporters the GOP could use a boost. For that matter I was hoping during Bidens presidency that the GOP would impeach Biden in order to motivate Democrats in a similar fashion but no such luck. Im not really a politics guy. I dont vote and idk who party leadership even is other than trump leading Republicans. The risk is that people like me and probably people who care a little more like me dont take impeachment seriously at all anymore. Just like oh yeah it didnt used to be like this but now if the other side doesnt like you theyll impeach you and act like it matters. The Impeachment has a good chance of going through but it does honestly mean much. Think of it like a court hearing for a crime. You could be convicted or found innocent. Anyone can end up with a hearing. It doesnt mean anything until the ruling... In an easy watered down way to explain it. The issue is the GOP in the Senate are not going to give their votes to convict and remove him. There is zero chance of him being removed from office at this time. It will fail like the other two did. This man is doing it for his own vanity &amp his election next year that he has a primary challenger in Michigan backed by Tlaib. Ever since his scandalfilled days in the private sector and long before holding public office Shri Thanedar has been a statusseeking cloutchasing moneygrubbing sociopath one whose varied politics have shapeshifted from moderate Republican donated to McCains presidential campaign to selfprofessed progressive failed 2018 gubernatorial run to House establishment Democrat based on his own ladderclimbing opportunistic careerism. This is his M.O. ugh. With that said he should face a strong primary challenge and hopefully be ousted in 2026. Until then ignore him. Because somebody has to do something! We are quickly slipping into an autocracy Just the risk of looking like idiotic career politicians with nothing better to do. What have these politicians done for their home districts? Do they no longer serve their constituents ? This sounds like another circus like the other impeachments were in Trumps 1st term. Leadership will never bring it up for a vote. He might as well have showed up cosplaying as Shinji. Didnt they impeach him two times in his first term as president? and what happened with that. Yeah it went nowhere.... congressman and senators are too busy campaign fundraising to keep themselves reelected. They dont have time for this silly Doing their job thing. It is recently come out across the world that UFOs are real. Theres currently a nonhuman intelligence on this planet and has been for many years. America Russia and China are currently trying to reverse engineer recovered craft. We have had three Congressional hearings regarding this subject plus over 40 whistleblowers wanting to testify under oath. The Paradigm of our existence has shifted yet no one even talks about this. Yet you still expect the media to tell you truth or anything of relevance? Hahaha. I am still stuck on when he said he was not associated and wouldn’t follow project 2025. And yet he clearly has followed the project 2025 to the letter. Do we not remember when he said that he was not going to follow 2025 during the debate and even time and time again?? Why aren’t people calling him out for clearly stating one things and doing exactly what he said he wouldn’t do. Many voted for him bc he said he wasn’t supporting the project 2025 agenda . Yet it’s exactly what he has done and continues to do . I personally believe its the Constitutional duty of house members to file articles of impeachment. Politically speaking at every step of the way with every impeachable offense Trump loses a tiny percentage of his support. Yes not much yes its largely a cult but different offenses impact or resonate with each supporter differently and I think its important to repeatedly put Republican congresspeople on record as saying No I dont believe *that* went too far at every step of our slide into authoritarianism. No its not going to magically fix everything but that doesnt mean you dont do it. Its a necessary but insufficient step that combined with taking every other action &amp pulling every other lever available to the Democrats legislatively &amp politically might hopefully be enough to win in the midterms. This goes further to prove the democrats are not ready to lead. The voters see it and will reward them accordingly. Wasting time money and energy on things that will not/ cannot succeed. They are just milking us for their own interests. Rep. Al Green introduced Articles against him during his first time I have a feeling he did it more than once but too stoned to Google and it was a nothingburger in this aluminum foil distraction that goes one with that and this administration. I was looking for a reddit article or any resource that keeps an ongoing list of impeachable actions taken by Trump/administration. Does anyone know where I may find such a resource? I know that this is a theoretical pitch here but in my view impeachment shouldnt simply be pursued when a clear violation of the laws has taken place. Impeachment/removal of a corrupt official should be enacted when a leader no longer serves the interests of the people in good faith. In this sort of context... Constitutional reasoning Impeachment has been used to remove government officers who abuse the power of the office conduct themselves in a manner incompatible with the purpose and function of their office or misuse the office for improper or personal gain. Declaration of Independence ...But when a long train of abuses and usurpations pursuing invariably the same Object evinces a design to reduce them under absolute Despotism it is their right it is their duty to throw off such Government that being said I have 3 primary examples of what I view as boot from office type impeachable offences 1 Advertising for Tesla. Trump hosted a widely publicized media event where he and Elon Musk promoted and hawked Teslas on the front lawn of the White House. This is clearly using the power of the presidency to boost the interests of his friend and a private corporation. A no brainer for impeachment even if not technically illegal... as this is using the office for personal gain. 2 Trumps $TRUMP meme coin crypto currency scandal. This one is twofold... 1 Trump started a new private business to enrich himself personally while in office. and 2 Offering exclusive White House access to the top purchasers of his crypto currency. This is a very blatant and egregious Pay for play type action. 3 If Trump/administration accepts the $400 million jet gift from Qatar without approval from congress. Article I of the Constitution **forbids any officeholder from accepting any gift or title from any King Prince or foreign State” without congressional consent**. Its called the Foreign Emoluments Clause. Again this one seems very clear cut. If all 3 of these charges were brought forth together along with any other acts Id say the cause for removal impeachment or revolution/mass protests/general strike are very strong. It only seems to be a matter of time before mass protests clashes with counter protesters and riots break out. If the Dems impeach him this term he will still stay in office again and it’ll just invigorate the right again in the next election. Simple math shows the votes aren’t there to actually remove him. Although I hate Mango more than any human ever and Ive never hated anyone before this is stupid. Its the equivalent of the Rs trying to impeach Biden when he first got in knowing it wouldnt happen. Thats how it comes across. Wait until 26 when a lot of these people are going to get voted out of office and the Ds are back in and can make a difference. Would it help at all to contact the house judiciary committee about convicting him? Listen the man led an insurrection. Like it or not he encourage his voters to disrupt official proceedings because he did not like the results. We should’ve done something then but everyone decided it wasn’t worth it. Congress said the justice department will take care of it if something is to be done.” The justice department said congress would’ve done something about it if it was that bad.” End of story. You’re not gonna get the guy on any principles” ruling now. Unless he commits an undeniable in broad daylight crime he will be fine. It’s over. Its just more political theater. Impeachment used to be a serious matter. Then the Democrats turned it into a complete joke. Who cares if its doomed to fail? Wed have a record of people that we can trust and people we cant So far I dont trust anyone. \ There are many different actions cited in the articles of impeachment but one recent action seems incredibly clear cut and dry to me. The gift of a $400m luxury plane from the government of Qatar. except that did not happen yet. It can be assumed that impeachment will not go through as Dems do not have majority. Not because the dont have a majority but that they lack the will and the courage to make it happen. From what I can gather the party leadership is fine with Trump running roughshod over the constitution fine with his criminal behavior fine with all his illegalities because it makes for good fodder for demanding campaign donations. I get a few dozen *demands* per day. What I dont get is anything resembling an explanation or plan on what to do with the money or any evidence that the Democrats are willing to confront Trump in any serious matter. That is why all these demands are sent to the trash bin. Im all for impeachment but I think using a laundry list approach is incorrect and poor strategy. I would prefer it be handled one issue at a time. File for impeachment on obstruction of justice citing every action and the laws they violate. Fail? Okay. Now file another impeachment action based on abuse of power again citing actions and laws. Fail again? Okay on to the next and next and next and next. Force the House to repeatedly reject articles of impeachment while allowing the media clickbait to reveal the depth and breadth of this administrations corruption hubris incompetence and animosity towards democracy. Flood the field relentlessly until the GOP and Trump are tied up in knots defending his behaviors. Piss them off enough to start making bad mistakes. The DNC leadership seems to engaging in the folly of a general seeking a single decisive victory to end a war while getting constantly beaten in smaller encounters that bleed his strength and are ruinous to morale. They seem to be focused on winning the midterms based on the wornout strategy of were not them rather than focusing on a solid progressive agenda with fresh faces that would appeal to the voters. For far too long the Democrats have just been about maintaining the power of increasingly blind geriatrics at the expense of the nation. Power positions in government have become a private club traded between members of the same generation to the greatest extent possible jealously warded against change. At this point in time it is obvious that the DNC leadership group is a cowardly failure on all counts and must be replaced it the party is to recover. Post 82 Does the majority have the right to suppress individual freedom? Does the majority have the right to suppress individual freedom? John Stuart Mill one of the most prominent figures of modern liberalism in the 19th century has a famous quote in his book On Liberty If society has the power to imprison an individual then that individual if he possessed the same power would have the right to imprison society as a whole. What Mill means here is that the majority does not possess a moral or legitimate right to deprive an individual of their freedom. Such acts are rooted not in principles of justice but in sheer power—even when cloaked in the guise of populist democracy or the desires of the masses. In Mills view individual rights are not conditional upon the approval or will of the majority they are inherent and inviolable. In a truly free society no one should face imprisonment or any deprivation of liberty for expressing an opinion—no matter how offensive rejected or contrary it may be to what the majority considers decency or public values. Simply labeling a viewpoint as indecent or inappropriate does not justify curtailing the speaker’s freedom. A society of free individuals does not have the right—even by unanimous agreement—to punish someone solely for their opinion regardless of its content. No punishment is legitimate if it stems from majority approval rather than from a principle that upholds rather than violates individual liberty. . This is a subreddit for genuine discussion * Please keep it civil. Report rulebreaking comments for moderator review. * Dont post low effort comments like joke threads memes slogans or links without context. * Help prevent this subreddit from becoming an echo chamber. Please dont downvote comments with which you disagree. Violators will be fed to the bear. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* I hate these discussions in an idealistic blanket context. The answer to questions like this is always it depends on the situation. If you think the answer to this question is no point blank then you dont believe in punishing crime. Does that make sense? On the other hand the answer obviously cannot be a blanket yes. Political philosophy is not a functional way to govern. We cannot build a society based upon rigid inflexible principles that do not adapt to situations. We can believe in freedom as a general concept and also recognize that sometimes that freedom needs to be restricted. This goes for basically every single concept we have for government. Remember only the Sith speak in absolutes. This is a tremendously fun quote from a popular space opera but its also some damn excellent political science. Is the majority 51% or 90%? If we want to live in a society some peoples individual freedoms will need to be limited. Yes the majority does have that right and despite protecting individual freedoms as much as we can there are limits usually for practical purposes. The examples you cite reference freedom of speech. Its obviously important for the government to allow its citizens to speak their mind no matter how offensive or off colour those words might be. The reason this freedom exists in the first place is itself a practical purpose. Criticism of the government must be possible. Governments have and continue to attempt to silence dissent by labelling that dissent as something unacceptable in their society be that unpatriotic treacherous or some other derogatory term. The very core of freedom of speech or expression as Commonwealth countries call it is to openly criticize the government. However it is extremely open ended in constitutions the world over because it must be in order to be truly protected. There are more examples than government criticism. It is important to democratic society to be allowed to suggest changes that are initially unpopular. Many things we take for granted today began as niche unpopular ideas that grew in prominence. If it were simple majority rule all of the time regarding what was acceptable to suggest they would never have gained traction. So then if free expression is so important why are restrictions to it acceptable? The first and foremost argument here is like I said earlier practicality. The yelling fire in a crowded theatre concept. Just speech free speech can cause real concrete problems for society at large. It isnt without consequences and sometimes those consequences impact other members of the same society adversely. Why should members of the society have such an unrestricted right to free speech that they can go ahead and cause harm to others? And here you arrive at the idea that to put it simply the world isnt as simple as we would like it to be. Sometimes exercising one freedom takes away freedoms from someone else. At the end of the day as much as especially Americans love to worship the concept of freedom it isnt a complete ideology. It requires some reining in and controlling in order to turn into a functional government a functional society. Protecting freedom can be an important tenet of your society but it isnt a strategy. It isnt a set of laws. Its an amorphous concept. The majority must regulate the freedoms granted to the individual on some level in order to be functional. We can aspire to restrict those freedoms as little as is practicable but it wont ever be zero restrictions. Until we come up with an alternative for say prisons we must restrict the liberty of problematic members of society. No punishment is legitimate if it stems from majority approval rather than from a principle that upholds rather than violates individual liberty. Soo... the freedom to visit Epstien Island? Lofty pronoucements about no punishment is legitimate if someone can make a vague argument about individual liberty are foolish You are correct that mere opinion is insufficient for *legal* consequences absent slander or libel but your argument is far too broad A large enough majority has the right to do whatever they want. Every part of our constitution can be changed in any way with enough consensus. How much legal punishment is being handed out based on opinions or statements? Freedom of speech is still a right and I cant seem to figure out what you mean by focus on this? On your broader question based on your title no because what counts as individual freedoms is distinctly different from what is deemed as punishable behavior. Its also very important to note that while laws are indirectly decided by majority rule no law has ever been passed solely on the logic that most people think it should be. Imagine the 20 wealthiest people in the world said all white men over 6 feet tall are pedophiles. They say it repetitively with million dollar ad campaigns for years. Its all over social media and the news. Some kids grow up believing this as the truth. They become tall men and have to live in a world where people think they are pedophiles just because of how they look. Should this be allowed because we want to protect the individual liberty of some billionaires? Your title doesnt align well with your post. Of course they do. Because at some point the freedom of one person conflicts with the freedom of another. And you need some system that balances those equities. Extreme examples are obvious. Lines are hard to draw in Grey areas. Hence you need a system to resolve those conflicts. Cases where someone is deprived of liberty by government because of pure speech is rare. That doesnt mean a private business has to tolerate a vocal member of the Klan on their payroll. Not being jailed by govt is different than than others exercising their rights to free association to separate themselves from you. No offence but isnt this just a profree speech statement on your part? The title alone suggested otherwise. Yes. Particularly if an individuals excess of freedom” comes at the expense of everyone else’s. If an opinion is based on the removal of freedom for certain people then it is more than warranted to sanction that opinion. Id have a lot more respect for Mills views on freedom of expression if they didnt involve limitation for the convenience of the corn grower a.k.a. the Capitalist. There are only two justice systems. Everyone gets Due Process or only those the NationState Approves of get Due Process. Most of the people who emigrated to America over the last 250years were fleeing the second type. Do I think people should be imprisoned simply for expressing an opinion? No. Does the majority have the right to suppress individual freedom? Generally yes we do it all the time and its actually a good thing. In fact I would argue that basically all laws represent collective decisions to curtail individual freedom for everyone in order to pursue some broader social goal. For example while you generally have the freedom to lie if you are selling goods/services you cannot commit fraud by lying about those goods/services. You do not have the individual freedom to dispose of certain hazardous chemicals by burning them in your backyard or by dumping them in the local river. If you start a business and hold yourself open to the public you do not have the freedom to deny service to members of the public on the basis of race gender religion etc. If you and your friends want to protest something so you block a local interstate highway you do not have the freedom to remain there indefinitely and law enforcement can remove you. These are all ways in which the concept of individual freedom is suppressed by the majority via adoption and enforcement of laws. This is not to say that i agree with the wisdom of all laws or that all laws are good policy and it doesnt mean that the majority can suppress ANY individual freedom in ANY manner it chooses e.g. the majority cannot limit/infringe constitutional rights via the law. What Im really just trying to point out is the broad question of does the majority have the right to suppress individual freedom is far too vague/general to really mean anything. What is the majority? What is the definition of individual freedom? What is the form and extent of the suppression? All of these factors may yield different answers depending on the context. The majority does not have the right to suppress any LEGAL individual freedom or action. This the whole point of the founding fathers. This why were not formed as a French style democracy. It is called the Tyranny of the Majority look it up it profoundly affected the writing of the Constitution. That mills guy sounds like someone who never thought about the difference between a positive and negative fredom. Lets take this example. A restaurant as a no black people policy. what is the pro freedom solution? Do we take the fredom of the owner or customer? It might crazy going right for thatbut it hits the point. At what point does your freedom to control end and my freedom from you begins. If you want a maximum free scoiety then you will have to pick which freedoms matter more If it is a constitutionally protected right then no if it is a right granted legislatively then yes. This is why we in the US have the 1st. 10 amendments to the US Constitution. Better known as the BILL OF RIGHTS This guarantees the rights of the people so they CANNOT be taken away without first amending the constitution which is a Herculean task in its self. Example say you want to take away the right of people to protest. Most amendments are made by first a 2/3 majority vote in both the House of Representatives and the Senate. This alone is almost impossible to do for something popular let alone something as unpopular as taking away the rights of the people. It will not happen your state and local governments can pass all the bills they want it cant be taken away. OK then if it does pass by 2/3 majority in the house and senate then it has a even more Herculean task of being ratified by the state legislators once again by 2/3 majority in their respective houses. Another way which has never been done is for a constitutional convention of the states lots of luck on that one. So this is why just a majority of people can not take away any right guaranteed by the US Constitution. Great country we have here because of the US Constitution. The majority has no right to limit individual freedom for when they try in the absence of a legitimate and cogent reason for doing so—the protection against harm—they necessarily open the door to authoritarianism. Rights are never based on majority or agreement but are instead created to secure individuals against the risk of creeping tyranny within power. Yes Social mores and laws can definitely affect behavior but the fundamental right to think to speak and to be real must always be unencumbered. No the government is here to protect the rights of the minority. Tyranny of the majority is a real thing and what we are living under. Depends what you mean by speech. You have the right to publicly criticize Israel but not harass Jewish students at a campus. You don’t have the right to force others to listen to you by blocking entry creating a traffic jam or destroying property. You have the right to hold a rally but not to enter a building without permission. No they do not have the right. Anyone who thinks they do is a tyrant or a wannabe tyrant. A group CANNOT have ANY freedoms that every single individual in the group does not have. So individual freedom trumps all. And every single right you have is simply an extension of the fact that you own yourself. A group might get together and use violence to deprive you of rights but that doesnt mean they have a right to. We live in a nation where a minority the wealthy control the government. It was designed this way see federalist papers. This was done out of a fear of the majority interfering with the property rights of the few. This was about the preservation of chattel slavery the wealth of land speculators driving pioneers off the land they had cleared keeping indentured servants and poor immigrants as a subservient and exploitable group. To preserve their power they have spent two centuries fostering hate and resentment of poor whites against poor blacks immigrants and women. They are doing g this right now and it threatens to chase a civil war. My question is can we afford not to curtail their rights Agree if the word society means the State rather than society as individuals We are currently being imprisoned by a single individual and rights are derived from the ability to exercise power. So while nice none of that tracks with reality. Post 83 Which country do you think has the best police force and why? Author ProfessionalRain402Post Text I was just reading an interesting thread about global crime rates and it got me thinking about law enforcement in different countries. Its such a complex topic and what one person considers a good police force might be different for someone else. Which country do you think has the best police force and why? . This is a subreddit for genuine discussion * Please keep it civil. Report rulebreaking comments for moderator review. * Dont post low effort comments like joke threads memes slogans or links without context. * Help prevent this subreddit from becoming an echo chamber. Please dont downvote comments with which you disagree. Violators will be fed to the bear. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Northern Ireland as a result of the Good Friday Agreement in 1998 we got a completely reformed modern police force with serious accountability structures. Just a full ground up rethink around policing. May not be the best statistically for budget etc reasons but it is a great model of how to run a police force in a divided society. My Oxford educated nephew is now a detective in London. His mindset has completely changed. He used to make sense now he doesn’t. He used to be a kind person now he isn’t. He might be the only police officer I’ve ever known well. The antiimmigrant sentiments run wild on his team and he settled in with that. Like that old joke about heaven and hell. Heaven is where the police are British. Germany is up there. The cops can be racist thugs but they are the opposite of trigger happy. In 2022 the total number of bullets fired by German police outside of training exercises was 84. In a country of 82 million people. Half of those 84 bullets were accidental discharges and mercy killings of animals deer and boars that got hit by cars etc. Another quarter was warning shots fired into the air. Less than 20 bullets were actually fired at people. And keep in mind that German cops are usually armed. It’s not like in England where only special units carry firearms. Nauru. They literally only have 80 people and 12 vehicles. Probably a pretty chill job Clearly the good I US of A baby. The results speak for themselves. Highest incarceration rate in the developed world. Cleaning up our streets so so well. /s Its tough to answer because not every police force works as well for every nation. The most *effective* is arguably El Salvador. After their current president Bukele took over he made some hardline reforms and crime fell *massively* and the cartels pretty much collapsed. Their murder rate is now over than where it was in 2016. This is despite South America as a whole but especially that region having a severe organized crime problem. Contrast their numbers with their neighbors Honduras and Guatemala to get a feel for the difference. However El Salvadors criminal justice system took a very aggressive approach under Bukele and many civil liberties that are highly valued in the United States Europe and other nations in South America are now more like mildmannered suggestions there. If El Salvadors police force were dropped in most other nations it would spark a human rights debate. How effective law enforcement is depends in large part on how much power you are willing to give them. With straight efficiency and no regard to peoples privacy and other rights the Chinese police. Low crime rates for a country that has huge urban population centers and isnt considered a fully developed nation. Everywhere I travelled in Italy especially in high tourist areas there was an unmistakably well armed security presence. But they were also helpful calm and definitely in control. I can tell you I dont trust the French police after knowing one for a number of years in a chat room. He routinely talked about harassing and targeting middle eastern people who he despised and his department being in on it. Best” is subjective. Camden NJ restarted its whole force in ~2013. . No idea if it’s been successful but it’s great to see an attempt to reform be made. Do you know which country has the largest number police officers in the world? I have no personal experience but I have read that Japanese police are very much. part of the communities. Heres what an AI says about them... *Japanese Police and Their Relationship with the Public* *Community Presence and Approachability* *Japanese police are highly visible and deeply embedded in local communities primarily through the widespread use of koban police boxes which serve as accessible neighborhood outposts. These small stations are found throughout urban and rural areas making police assistance readily available for both emergencies and everyday concerns.* *Officers are often seen helping with minor tasks such as giving directions assisting at festivals helping children cross the street and mediating neighborhood disputes. This approach fosters a sense of police as approachable and helpful community members rather than distant enforcers.* *Public Perception and Trust* *The Japanese public generally views police officers as protectors of the community and consistently rates them as one of the most trusted institutions in the country. Many citizens feel comfortable approaching police for help with a wide range of issues from lost property to neighborhood conflicts.* You can’t just pick and choose at specific places and project them on the country as a whole” Apply that thought to the US. If China is developing” we are regressing. The GDP isn’t a good indicator of quality of life for the citizens many cultures done tolerate crime or destruction of public spaces. American culture says everything is fair game as long as you dont get caught. As a result of this Im giving the point to AMERICAN POLICE. Post 84 On May 15 the High Ct. will hear oral arguments in Birth Right Executive Order. Lower courts have placed injunctions one or more nationwide. Trump has limited his appeal not to the merits of injunction but its covering of the entire country. Is this an attempt by Trump to limit his loss? Author PsychLegalMindPost Text Trump wants the Supreme Court to limit the power of the district courts to issue nationwide injunctions In the past the Supreme Court has limited in some instances injunctions to parties concerned or Districts but they have never said that is applicable in all cases. Supreme Court clearly has the power to rule executive orders unconstitutional. This authority stems from the doctrine of judicial review and is an important check on presidential power. While not all executive orders are unconstitutional the Court has overturned orders that improperly encroach on legislative authority or violate individual rights. Perhaps Trump is concerned that if he argued for reversal or lifting of injunctions blocking his Executive Order of Birthright Citizenship in its entirety could be a major setback. Is this an attempt by Trump to limit his loss? . This is a subreddit for genuine discussion * Please keep it civil. Report rulebreaking comments for moderator review. * Dont post low effort comments like joke threads memes slogans or links without context. * Help prevent this subreddit from becoming an echo chamber. Please dont downvote comments with which you disagree. Violators will be fed to the bear. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* In my view Trump is hoping the Supreme Court rules that a federal judge cannot make a ruling that overrules Trump across the entire country limiting the impact of federal judges interrupting his executive orders. Personally I think this has no merit as federal judges are typically ruling that the EO in question whichever one that might be is A unconstitutional and B will cause immediate and irreversible damage. Therefore it must be stopped until further review can take place. I find it difficult to accept that the Supreme Court would vote away their own branch’s judicial power given in the constitution. But we will see… Context matters a lot here. The EO affects people nationwide meaning that relief should be nationwide. Only allowing federal district court judges to offer relief in their own districts makes no sense. Theyre *federal* judges. By definition their jurisdiction is federal their division into districts a matter of logistics not law. That means the case would have to have a limited injunction based on its merits. Those are so nonexistant that they arent even arguing them. I cant see how this goes in Trumps favor. This is less about birthright citizenship and more about the ability of judges to issue nationwide injunctions overall. What Trump wants is less judicial interference in him implementing his executive orders. Trump isnt going to win on birthright citizenship here. If the Supreme Court rules in his favor its going to mean that relief will be limited to those plaintiffs who directly sued. Every individual plaintiff will have to file a lawsuit but based on the rulings of other judges they will be successful if they do. What I find particularly ironic and galling is that Trump tried to explain away deporting illegal immigrants without due process by saying well need millions of trials theres no time for that. Yet he doesnt seem to care that there will be a ton of lawsuits gumming up the court system if individuals need to sue to get birthright citizenship for their child. The way I see it ruling nationwide preliminary injunctions unconstitutional means there is no longer a federal Republic. A preliminary injunction requires a showing that 1 the Plaintiff is likely to succeed on the merits 2 the Plaintiffs will suffer irreparable harm absent the injunction 3 the balance of equity or hardship is in the Plaintiffs favor and 4 the injunction is in the public interest. So if the courts decide that the 23 States suing are likely to succeed on the merits that the EO strips citizens of their constitutional rights but a court has to limit their injunctive relief to only citizens of the 23 Plaintiff States its as good as saying that citizens of the other 37 States dont have that constitutional right. And what would this look like practically? Citizens by birth in the 37 States get what kind of passport? And they have to apply for a visa to go to one of the 23 States where the Constitution applies to everyone? No. Thats not how a federal constitution works. I can imagine SCOTUS trying to rule extraordinarily narrowly to try and keep the possibility of narrowing nationwide injunctions on the table but I dont see how they can possibly get around the simple fact that when it comes to constitutional rights being infringed on everyone in the country is entitled to relief. I cant imagine any ruling which finds that a district ruling over an EO is unconstitutional wouldnt apply nationwide without that ruling itself District courts are split into districts purely for logistical convenience not because the districts are in any way legally different. They are all beholden to the same federal laws. Any finding in one district must *by factual necessity* also apply to all other districts. It is simply not acceptable for an action to be illegal in one district but legal in another. That is very specifically not how federal law works. While one district court may find that another district erred in a ruling that does not make the matter regiondependent. All federal law applies to the entire country uniformly. When districts disagree It is not permissible under the 14th amendment to let stand a situation where federal law is interpreted and obeyed differently in varying regions of the United States. Whether *this SCOTUS in particular* will uphold the unambiguously established law here is debatable. But the fact that it is legally correct for a district ruling to be nationally enforceable until found incorrect by a higher court is beyond debate. They want to weaken the courts to such a degree that there are no effective checks and balances on the president. Unitary executive facing courts that have been divided and conquered. His policies are chaotic and absolute bs. Just like his tariff policy. He’s walking everything back as he realizes he is screwed. So I have been searching for an answer and cannot find it if Trump were to win this case would someone born in the US to a noncitizen 25 years ago have their citizenship revoked or are they grandfathered in to remain a citizen? Can we stop does Trump want this or that questions? He is a moron who doesnt even have a basic understanding of how any of this works. It gives an idiot who is being led by the collar undue weight. He wants a ruling about something that previous presidents didnt like either that a policy can be stopped by one wellshopped judge anywhere in the country. From the Supreme Courts view it means a large increase in petitions to overturn injunctions instead of letting the issue play out for those plaintiffs and percolate up through the courts to them. I dont think this will be the case where the Court will consider the validity of nationwide preliminary injunction I am very interested in reforms to the cosmic preliminary injunction and Im of two minds here. One is that cosmic preliminary injunctions have gone from a seldomused action to an abused form of lawfare. They go well beyond the purpose of equitable relief that injunctions provide and violate the purpose of personal jurisdiction that a district court possesses. Preliminary injunctions are to protect plaintiffs from harm that cant be remedied by legal meaning monetarily means. Extending the injunction nationwide provides no more relief to the Plaintiff and thus perverts the remedys function to another end policy. So I think Congressional action is proper. On the otherhand we all see examples of actions that we think are illegal and wish to see halted full stop before more damage is done. Thats a nice thought but I dont think thats the purpose of the Court. However the political branches have the ability to create facts on the grounds that arent easily reversed if the proper time needed to litigate is taken. And its not like appealing these injunctions are difficult and timeconsuming. The Trump administration was able to get appellate rulings on the law of the injunctions that caused them to howl the most within a few weeks. So maybe Im looking for a legislative answer to a problem that is well in hand. Its two different issues. The birthright citizenship question needed to be answered by SCOTUS and the only way for them to hear it was for the EO to compel them. And the wider question on limited authority of the lower district courts is something that SCOTUS should themselves reform if for no other reason than judge shopping to stop the party in the minority from blockading the will of the voter. Do not be so naive to believe that it wont get used against the other party when they regain power. This is just politics aka hypocrisy. Both political parties over the years have complained about and utilize nationwide injunctions. Post 85 Why do people tend to become more and more conservative the older they get? Fully aware that this is not true for all people...but generally speaking I find that amongst my friends family members and in some ways even myself we are all becoming more and more conservative the older we get to varying degrees. I still dont count myself as a consevative not even close but I admittedly find myself more and more aligned with the right in regards to immigration border enforcement certain entitlement programs and gun rights now that I am a bit older. A couple of my friends have done a total and complete 180 and have gone from being Bernie Sanders supporters to hardcore MAGA in just the span of a few years...something I find equal parts perplexing and fascinating. So what do you suspect are the main causes for this rightward ideological shift that seems to be correlated with advancing age? And since they say with age comes wisdom does that suggest anything about the validiity of the ideologies in any way? Why is it that you rarely see the opposite as in someone becoming more and more liberal and ideologically left as they get older? Edit I will also add that the one aspect that I have come to absolutely despise the most about the Democrats is the absurd amount of requirements and red tape they place around government programs and government mandated business regulations...but instead of another personal anecdote of which I have a few being a small business owner in California I will simply point to Ezra Kleins appearance on Jon Stewarts podcast where he breaks down the prerequisites required just to be eligible to receive the grant for rural broadband ​internet service from Bidens Build Back Better infrastructure legislation. . This is a subreddit for genuine discussion * Please keep it civil. Report rulebreaking comments for moderator review. * Dont post low effort comments like joke threads memes slogans or links without context. * Help prevent this subreddit from becoming an echo chamber. Please dont downvote comments with which you disagree. Violators will be fed to the bear. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* This mightve been true at one point because previous generations gained wealth as they got older and had something to conserve. I would need more than anecdotal evidence to believe its still true. When youre young you have nothing to conserve. When youre old you usually do. I don’t know if the conventional wisdom is true anymore but a lot of older people have time on their hands and there are some powerful propaganda outlets on the right that know how to tap into the fear centers of older folks. I don’t accept the premise of your question without some evidence supporting it Rightwingers have always loved repeating the idea that people get more conservative as they get older as if its some kind of universallyaccepted axiomatic truth. Still dont know whats supposed to be the basis for it. I also dont support the premise. Ive grown more liberal and progressive as Ive aged. Untrue generalization. This might have been true of American boomers due to a unique alignment of historical events and material conditions in the USA. I was raised as an evangelical conservative. But Im a millennial living through my 4th once in a lifetime financial crash. So Ive gone fully socialist and Im not going back to conservatism ever. My guess is money Is this reversing? A minor offriend of mine loves a book/professor suggesting men become gentler and kinder as they age? Dont forget with liberal vs conservative andnowMAGA there is social and economic. Used to be very different.. Now has blurred I / i feel like thats only really true for certain generations I dont really see millennials and gen z getting more conservative with age. but in regards to others I dont think any who shifts more conservative with age was ever really liberal to begin with at best they have started as a libertarian or a fiscal republican It’s a broad generalization and not even necessarily true. As an example both of my parents have become more liberal over the years. But to answer the question nostalgia is a hell of a drug. The Republican party tries to appeal to nostalgic views of the past. They evoke visions of a simpler time in peoples lives and older people tend to eat it up. Add in regressive tax policies as many older people have accumulated wealth and there you go. I think this is simplified version of an observation that has had some level of truth. My personal opinion is that this saying is what older conservatives say. I don’t know if I’ve ever heard an older liberal person make this claim. I think there is definitely a tendency in general to idealism in youth especially during later education. And there’s also likely some truth that as people age and become more focused on a family career and working towards retirement as well as more years experience trying to make change in their lives jobs etc they move less towards idealism and more towards practicality. Personally I don’t associate practicality with conservatism or liberalism. But I do associate practicality as a move away from extreme positions. However in today’s very divided political climate which seems funded on division and extremism what is a republican or democrat at this point? Does become older mean becoming MAGA? No. But it could mean moving away from extreme positions with hopes of actually getting something done. Edit Sorry I hit send early I promise as I get older Im getting more and more liberal as the system continues to show cracks and fail the common man. And I think theres a good portion of people who feel the same. No. My Mom was very liberal when she died at 93 and Im still very liberal at 73. They dont. The world around them moves to a new progressive idea and leaves most behind. Some move with it most dont. Accumulation of wealth change in position/roles in society/family we get more static in our belief systems as we age change is more threatening to those more established in the system a trend for higher religiosity as we age Used to be that when you grew older you acquired more wealth and assets so you naturally became conservative but that no longer happens in this US hell hole. Anecdotally this could really be an issue of getting money and then wanting to hold onto it i.e. fiscal conservatism but most conservatives are not rich enough to see a real decline in wealth from progressive policy so much of that belief is misguided to begin with. Social conservatism is often just related to religious values and older people happen to be more religious. Other than that this is just an assumed thing that conservatives say to try to make progressivism seem juvenile and naive and doesnt necessarily have empirical support Your premise is suspect. My 98yr old motherinlaw was an influential GOP member serving on the National Rules committee for several conventions. When Trump took over her party she registered as a Democrat and had a 1000 Dump Trump buttons made to give away. She is actively participating in protests with me an almost 70 former Republican. Ive gotten more moderate but Im straight liberal if I disagree with the current Repuglicans apparently. Older people become more fearful isolated stuck in their ways and less open to change as they age. The left tends to be built more on ideals how things could be if everything was perfect and if everyone was nice. But we don’t live in that world and never will. As you get older life beats idealism out of you. You realize it wasn’t just republicans lying to you democrats were lying to you as well. You realize the silliness of some of the positions they take like fighting ID to vote because at some point you just can’t argue how much you need ID for anyway. Then when you get older and you start making more money the taxes start to suck and you realize how little you get back and how much they lied about the taxes. And maybe you buy a house and like me you take a loan against your 401k to finance part of it which is taking a loan against owned stock and it changes your view on the envious people who lie about billionaires and their stock. So when you start to pay attention to results and not ideals you move more conservative. For many only fiscally for some all the way. Senility tends to make complex nuanced things suddenly seem very simple while simple things become very difficult. Race is hard. Truth used to be so simple. Plus the anger that that loss of relationship with reality engenders. BTW senility may seem a loaded word and not a best choice but decline whatever you want to call it begins lots earlier than any of us would like. Or do they become more focused on only the one or two issues that they feel directly impact them e.g. crime &amp social security and vote entirely based on promises related to those? What I have observed is that some people who were raised by Conservative parents may suddenly revert to Conservative attitudes once they have a child of their own. This is reddit so youll just get a bunch of anecdotal evidence saying that this isnt true. No one who is aligned with fairness and income redistribution as well as a wealth tax is going to suddenly believe in strip mining the common man to boost the outcomes for the oligarchy. These ideas are wholey incompatible. Unless you go full Fetterman and everyone knows you dont go full Fetterman. The evidence is mixed. If youre looking for general speculation on why it might happen if it does aging leads to senility and fear not wisdom. Im not sure it’s true. But if it is my theory would because to me at least conservatism has a fondness for bygone years and a current of nostalgia for our childhoods that seemed looking back as a a simpler time” when everything was better that people kind of miss. Of course every generation looks back at their childhoods this way because it was simpler we were kids. Anyway I think this outlook gets more prominent as you get older. Peoples sense of justice and normal solidifies sometime in their early adult years and then largely persists over their lives. Since American rightwing conservatism is largely a reactionary force against change this persistence makes them appear to drift rightward as the society advances. Young people are more accepting of social and societal change than their parents. This is because they have no context for what is new and weird vs what is familiar and safe because to them *everything* is new. As a result they are far more likely to take up the mantle for their generations struggle like womens suffrage civil rights gay marriage etc... However that same sense of justice solidifies and doesnt evolve throughout the rest of their lives. Social movements and changes that take place later in their life often along the same ideological lines as those they fought for in their youth strike them as a step too far. The abolitionists may have wanted the slaves freed but making them *equal* members of society? Suffragists thought women should be able to vote but should they really be afforded the same respect as a man in all aspects of life? Some may thing that gay people should be able to do whatever they want in the privacy of their own homes but allowing them to teach children or get married... to them that just *seems* wrong. And so as the new generations keep popping up and ushering in novel changes to society the older former radicals after having won their generations fight and solidifying their sense of justice around that time period becomes increasingly uncomfortable with those novel changes. One day you may ask yourself perhaps conscious AIs really should have rights but should they be allowed to marry *real* people? Social pressures from in and out groups a constant stream of corporate funded conservative propaganda and in some cases testosterone supplements and antidepressant use numbing already poorly equipped critical thinking skills. And some are just racists who had childhood lead exposure the effects of which presents much later in life. While I didnt get fully conservative I definitely drifted from the left. More to the center or independent / apolitical. Reasons The left will tout some stuff they accomplished but from my POV it was too weak measured and now I see it came with a lot of corruption excess and compromise. I grew up and understood that immigration is a more complicated matter than I ever thought about in my youth. As I aged and saw my own weaknesses I realized the value of things like masculinity pragmatism and nuclear families. I witnessed the devastation of AIDs and drug epidemics as well as other social ills of supposed victimless noncrimes like sexual secrecy/promiscuity. I studied the situations of exmuslims how they face capital punishment as apostates. Oct 7 happened then I learned that most Arab nations still refuse to acknowledge Israels existence. Antisemitism always existed but fully on the DL before. The issues that much more liberal countries in Europe are bringing on themselves is now apparent risking becoming outpopulated by muslims as majorityChristian Lebanon came to be a few decades ago. I learned in college that being outpopulated means being outgoverned explaining the flirtation with Sharia law that UK and some parts of EU are indulging in. And I am still liberal enough to say Sharia law can fuck right on off. I mean... I could go on. But bigmoney liberalism is bullshit. It always was. Bigmoney conservatism is too mind you Im disillusioned with the left/right dynamic in general. Edit to add in the extraordinary fringe left stuff like no losers allowed in the kids game. It is real. And prescriptivist language for pronouns more of an issue in Canada and other nations but no thanks to criminalizing ordinary speech to accommodate someones dysmorphia... The kind of stuff no one would have ever dreamt of 3 4 decades ago. On the going from Sanders to MAGA point I would argue this is because America no longer has a true labor party. The Democrats havent been a proper labor party in thirty years. The Republicans are even further from being a labor party. So that part of the electorate rightfully feels unrepresented in our current system. Sanders is the first real labor candidate for president the Democrats have had since Clinton took over the party. Aside from young people he energized a lot of the voters who care about labor and arent very happy with neoliberalism. While Trump is not a labor candidate he does often talk like one. A lot of his movement attempts to send the message that he will make things better for labor. Weve seen thats not what his policies actually are but nevertheless the rhetoric has been effective. A lot of the Sanders to MAGA voters are likely these kinds of people. This is just my own conjecture but the ideal candidate for the blue collar MAGA voter would actually be a more racist version of Bernie Sanders. They actually want left wing fiscal policy. They just also need to be assured that minorities wont be benefiting from it. I don’t know if that’s really true anymore. I’m in my 50s have always been pretty liberal and I’m moving farther left with every passing year especially given the current insane administration. On social issues its sometimes not people becoming more conservative but the country moving forward and them getting stuck in their old beliefs. Someone who turns 75 this year came of age in a polical world where whether or not white and black children should be allowed to go to the same school was a legitimate question. Now someone saying that we should racially segregate schools would end their career. So if you were a moderate teenager on race in 1968 and never adjusted your views you would be a hard right racist today. I think with age and experience I have come to see that change is generally accomplished by degrees black and white thinking isn’t helpful and doesn’t allow for compromise. I don’t think people get more conservative as they get older. Society progresses. Over time the world shifts to being more progressive. People can stay with the same beliefs conservative or progressive as they age. The world moves on making stagnant perspectives seem more conservative. It’s a generalization but i think there are some aspects of truth to it. As you get older and are forced to make a living and have increasing responsibilities and material comfort you become more invested in the status quo. I would say people tend to get more conservative for a few reasons. One change is scary. When were young were enthralled by the possibility of what could be how things could get better. As we get older and more experienced we witness how youthful energy and desires can lead to extremely negative outcomes and tend towards safer more conservative options. Two we tend to romanticize the past and want to keep things as they were because in our heads things were pretty great even if in reality it wasnt. Also as we have children and grandchildren this romanticization leads us to want to keep things the same so that our children can enjoy the same lives that we did. I think one of the main causes of this is that people mature. They dont care as much about issues like tampons in boys bathrooms and start to care about there future their families and commonsense. Also when younger you sort of run with the pack where as you get older your more of an independent thinker a lone wolf so to speak. The answer is fear. Young people tend more to being optimistic and feeling indestructible and expansive. A few decades of life experience will beat you up a bit. Physically and emotionally. Youll experience the loss of loved ones. Youll have some dreams shattered. Feeling loss and pain creates fear which reverses the youthful optimism and inspires instead caution and contraction. Whatever people have whether its a lot or a little they become more guarded as they become afraid. They wanna protect what they have especially from those others. They feel like ***their*** *pain* which is deeply personal to only them entitles them to whatever it is they are trying to keep to themselves whereas no one else has felt their pain and therefore no one else deserves what they have. It takes a compassionate mind and the ability to see beyond your own pain and recognize the pain of others to have a chance at seeing them as beings that are as fully human as you. I think being a liberal or a conservative depends on your current situations. Please be open minded about what I am going to say When youre young lets say a college student youre not financially stable youve loans a low wage and a lot of plans that require money. and that financial instability make you question the entirety basis of the world why there is no money for young people? why there is no fair wealth distribution? when you find that you cant pursue the profile you want to be in a capitalist world professionally and socially because of the limited resources youve. You start questioning the current economy and seek for its decline at the expense of hurting others the wealthy not in a criminal way. Once those young people start to find their way in this Ecosystem and accumulate a decent amount of wealth theyll gradually turn their backs on how to fix the world and forget the real questions about wealth. So they give up their past ideals! because if they pursued a career of a left activist only in economy they might lose what theyve recently acquired. People are by default egoists theyll adopt whatever beliefs that goes with their personal interests. if youre wealthy youll lean to protect your wealth. if youre poor youll go for an opportunity to grab/steal wealth. Theres just no evidence than any individual voter is going to trend one way or another as they age. It appears that most people get set in the ideology and stabilize into a consistent voting trend. There is some evidence that voting cohorts get more conservative but that appears to largely be that young conservatives are less likely to vote than young liberals but eventually the voting rates normalize between both ideologies. I am 54 and many of my life decisions are predicated on the fact that I perhaps have about 10 good working years ahead of me. Whilst that doesnt change my own politics much if I were purely selfish then high real estate prices and low taxes on passive income are advantageous to me. Our media goes really hard on framing policy issues as what do I personally directly gain?. Personally I think older people being more conservative in our time is mostly down to media consumption patterns. That hasnt been true Im about twenty thirty years. My belief is that people become conservative as they get wealthier unwilling to support social services during the times where it doesnt help them and just takes resources from them. But people havent been experiencing wealth as theyve been getting older for a few decades now. My inlaws 80s my generation 50s/60s and the next generation 20s/30s are what we are and not one single person has changed…aside from the BIL who is pretty right wing refused to vote for Trump but didn’t vote for Kamala either. The rest of us oldies are as liberal as ever. Totally disagree on every single Trump policy and fear for our democracy…why? Bc we are all college educated professionals. We would never be conservative…that is so cringe. I dont think this is as true as it once was because the GOP has become a more reactionary change party over time. The Dems meanwhile are upholding the neoliberal status quo which is why the Boomers are turning towards the left see low turnout special elections going towards the Dems who votes in these elections? Boomers So what do you suspect are the main causes for this rightward ideological shift that seems to be correlated with advancing age? And since they say with age comes wisdom does that suggest anything about the validiity of the ideologies in any way? Perhaps you can say that as people get older they tend to have more immediate responsibilities and that chips away from their ability to think about the bigger picture and their prioritization of acting morally. Common wisdom is not necessarily true. Researchers have found that voters are more likely to stick with the party they supported early in their voting career. However if they do shift they are more likely to become more conservative than more liberal. https//www.journals.uchicago.edu/doi/10.1086/706889 You are making an assumption without providing evidence that one becomes more conservative as one ages. Personally I have experienced the opposite. Of note in Canada older people voted Liberal in higher proportions than younger people in their most recent election not sure about prior elections. Because they get smarter wiser and wealthier. Liberalism is rooted in emotional idealism about how we wish the world could operate. But as we get older we realize human nature doesnt live up to up idealist standards. Some people are actually lazy and should pay for their own bad decisions. Some people are actually bad they are not victims of circumstance. Sometimes compromise isnt possible and might makes right. All these realities become amplified when you have kids and grandkids and you really consider legacy. I dont accept the premise of the question. Im pushing 70 and Im still very far left of center. One thing that comes with age is experience. And with experience comes skepticism and cynicism. Weve seen the bullshit before so when some younguns try to repackage it and resell as something new were not buying. Nobody considers the requirement to *pay the bills* until they have to do it. I live in an extremely leftist city in a very blue state. And I have most of my arguments with Progs we have a third party in Vermont. Its always someone else who is paying the tab. If youre young and conservative you dont have a heart. If youre old and liberal you dont have a brain. Older folks very broadly tend to be more fearful of crime suspicious of people and worried about losing what they have. It makes logical sense for people to become more fearful as they become more physically fragile have less time to recover from injury/loss simply have more to lose etc. and understand less about youth culture technology etc. and therefore feel less in control and less powerful. Feed them a diet of 24/7 news that reports on crime constantly if there wasnt any locally by god theyll find some in the next city county state or country and report it in lurid detail and you can greatly amplify any normal level of anxiety. More generally there have been some psychological and poli sci studies that have found higher baseline threat perception and disgust response levels in conservatives but the data is very arguable and its not clean science. I trained in anthropology and it makes a certain kind of sense to my gut check in terms of human evolution there would be certain advantages to people with a genetic trait that causes them to be afraid/feel threatened and want to stick to who and what they know. Conversely there would ALSO be advantages to people who are naturally adventurous and open to strangers and change. So of course we have large quantities of both. So it makes sense behaviorally and there might be something to it genetically as well. They don’t the Overton Window just keeps shifting and eventually they fall behind it. [deleted] Post 86 Why are immigrants across the West increasingly voting for rightwing parties? The realignment as its happening in the **Trumps return to power fueled by Hispanic workingclass voter support** Donald Trump reshaped the U.S. electorate once again this year piling up support among Hispanic voters young people and Americans without college degrees and winning more votes in nearly all of the country as he reclaimed the presidency. Following the Republicans populist campaign in which he promised to shield workers from global economic competition and offered a wide range of taxcut proposals Trumps increasing strength among workingclass voters and nonwhite Americans helped grow his share of the vote almost everywhere. The starkest increase may have been the 14percentagepoint swing in Trumps share of Hispanic voters according to an exit poll conducted by Edison Research. Some 46% of selfidentified Hispanic voters picked Trump up from 32% in the 2020 election when Trump lost to Democrat Joe Biden. Hispanics have largely favored Democrats for decades but Trumps share this year was the highest for a Republican presidential candidate in exit polls going back to the 1970s and just higher than the 44% share won by Republican George W. Bush in 2004 according to data compiled by the American Enterprise Institute a conservative think tank. In **Why are so many secondgeneration South Asian and Chinese Canadians planning to vote Conservative?** After months of political decline the Liberal Party of Canada is showing signs of recovery buoyed some suggest by a surge of national pride in the face of Donald Trump’s tariff war and threats to Canadian sovereignty. But this apparent rebound obscures a more surprising political shift the growing appeal of the Conservative Party of Canada CPC among immigrants and their children. Traditionally immigrant and visible minority communities have supported the centrist Liberal Party. In the Greater Toronto Area GTA where over half of all residents identify as visible minority” the category used by StatCan Chinese and South Asian Canadians have long formed a key part of the Liberal base. Yet recent polling tells a different story. An October 2024 survey found that 45 per cent of immigrants had changed their political allegiances since arriving in Canada with many now leaning Conservative. Meanwhile another national survey from January 2025 found that a majority of East Asian 55 per cent and South Asian 56 per cent respondents expressed support for the Conservative Party far outpacing support for the Liberals or the NDP. In **Neighborhood Stereotypes and Recent Voting Patterns in Auckland New Zealand** West Auckland includes another electorate that supported Labour in 2023 Kelston although it did so by a relatively thin margin. Some of its stereotypes – such as PLabs” meth labs and Tongans” – indicate the presence of rough neighborhoods and of a large Polynesian immigrant community. To its north is TeAtatu noted for its low and mediumcost housing. Another western electorate that switched from Labour to National in 2023 is New Lynn. Based on the stereotypes applied to it such results are surprising. Such tags as faint whiff of pot” hippies” potters” and artisany type people” would suggest a decidedly leftleaning population. And that is its historical norm. As the nonupdated Wikipedia article on the electorate notes It has always been held by members of the Labour Party.” But in 2023 the National Party triumphed in New Lynn both in the partylist vote and the electorate vote albeit by relatively thin margins. Intriguingly its new MP Paulo Reyes Garcia is an immigration lawyer originally from the Philippines. The southwestern part of northern Auckland the Northcote and Upper Harbour electorates is a midincome area noted for its Asian immigrants. Such features are indicated by three prominent labels on the stereotype map very average” Koreans” and Chinatown” although Northcote also includes an area that is evidently populated by artists too cool for cityside”. Upper Harbour with its depressing suburbs” car yards” and Koreans” saw a particularly sharp drop in support for Labour from 2020 to 2023. In **Britain’s New Swing Voters? A Survey of British Indian Attitudes** The data show that while a plurality of British Indians selfidentifies with the liberal end of the political spectrum and demonstrates a preference for the opposition Labour Party over the incumbent Conservative Party their support for Labour appears to have eroded in recent years. This shift appears to be largely driven by Hindus and Christians many of whom have drifted away from the Labour Party even as their Muslim and Sikh counterparts have remained steadfast supporters. If a fresh general election were called British Indians would likely be an important swing constituency. Whereas 54 percent of past voters report voting for Labour in 2015 that share dipped to 46 percent in 2019 and stands at 41 percent today. The Conservative Party however has not been the sole beneficiary of Labour’s tribulations. While support for the Conservatives grew from 37 percent in 2015 to 39 percent in 2019 it stands at 31 percent today. However two other trends bear mentioning. First the share of voters lending their support to third parties grew from 10 percent in 2015 to 15 percent in 2019. Second results of the snap election question indicate that thirdparty support is continuing to grow while 11 percent of prior voters do not yet know how they might vote. An analysis of the British Indian community’s voting patterns between 2010 and 2017 found that while support for Labour remained relatively flat during this period hovering above 50 percent the share of voters supporting the Conservative Party grew by 10 percentage points during this period from 30 to 40 percent. In **A Study of Minority and Majority Groups in France Germany and the Netherlands** Voters with a background in Turkey are the most likely to vote for RN in France with a score of 3.26 SD = 0.34. This is closely followed by Christian voters with a score of 2.78 SD = 0.19 and French voters without a migration background with a score of 2.78 SD = 0.30. Voters with a background in North Africa come next scoring 2.66 SD = 0.37 followed by nonreligious voters scoring 2.56 SD = 0.24. Muslims have the lowest likelihood of voting for RN scoring 2.25 SD = 0.45. When considering confidence intervals there is overlap between all groups except for voters with a background in Turkey and Muslims. This suggests that the difference in voting likelihood between only these two groups is statistically significant indicating that voters with a background in Turkey are more likely to vote for RN than Muslims in France. Although the group of French citizens with a background in Turkey is small N=87 and mostly secular. It is important to note that Muslims are just as likely to vote for RN as nonreligious and Christian voters as their confidence intervals overlap with those groups. This suggests that there’s no statistically significant difference in the likelihood of Muslims voting for RN compared to nonreligious or Christian voters in France. In **A Drastic Change in Voting Behavior** Between 2013 and 2018 party preferences among Turkish Germans underwent significant changes which indicate that old patterns of party support broke down. Between 2000 and 2013 Turkish immigrants had found their political home within the SPD with twice the amount of support from the population than to any other party. However in 2018 a huge shift occurred support for the SPD dropped to half of what was recorded in 2013 whereas intended support for the CDU jumped to 20% from Turkish German voters. The results from 2018 indicate that the factors that most heavily influenced Turkish German voters a decade prior may not be as influential now. In addition it is apparent that the voting intentions of the Turkish diaspora in Germany are becoming increasingly similar to those of the general German electorate. In 2018 there was a notable shift in voting behavior from the Turkish German community the SPD witnessed a drop of 35 percentage points equaling a decrease of 50% of support while the CDU saw growth of 14 percentage points a 233% increase in support. The results from the 2018 federal election reveal a breakdown of old patterns of party support and indicate that the factors that most heavily influenced Turkish German voters from over a decade prior may no longer be as influential. In addition it was apparent that the voting intentions of the Turkish diaspora in Germany were similar to those of the general German electorate. Immigrants once a solid leftwing voting bloc are now increasingly voting for rightwing parties across the West. Why do you think this realignment is happening? Do you think it will continue into the future or will it reverse? What can be done to bring imm . This is a subreddit for genuine discussion * Please keep it civil. Report rulebreaking comments for moderator review. * Dont post low effort comments like joke threads memes slogans or links without context. * Help prevent this subreddit from becoming an echo chamber. Please dont downvote comments with which you disagree. Violators will be fed to the bear. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* A lot of immigrants arent exactly proimmigrant themselves. Theres a lot of I came here legally so everyone else should too view points in immigrant communities. That influences a lot of them to vote rightwing but even more so many immigrants come from cultures that genuinely align with the view points of western rightwing parties traditional values conservatism religion opposition to progressivism etc. We also need to keep in mind the voting preferences of these immigrants in their home countries. Many of them just genuinely are rightwing people. There are rightwing parties in most countries just because someone is an immigrant does not mean that they themselves arent rightwing too and they naturally flock to rightwing politicians even if the leftwing is friendlier to immigrants. For Latin Americans in Florida many are wealthy or middleclass conservatives who left countries that are either socialist or led by a leftwing government so they naturally are attracted by the GOP. First mistake is assuming all Hispanics are immigrants. There are millions of Americanborn Hispanics and that share is increased when you only consider citizens who vote. Theres zero reason why such people should be automatically supportive of newcomers they have no relation to other than the racist justification that theyre also Hispanic. Additionally like that link says Bush won a similar percentage of Hispanics twenty years ago. This isnt new. Here is what the former Prime Minister of Canada Stephen Harper said about immigrants supporting Conservatives. He was the leader of the Conservatives Party of Canada. He won two minority governments and a majority government. Fact of the matter is most of these people have conservative views. They come to Canada I’m sure they come to the United States for the most part because they seek economic opportunity.” They have very traditional hostility towards crime and criminal elements towards the extremes of liberal social values they’re familyoriented people. So we appeal to them on that basis.” We can still see this trend in last month’s Canadian election. Conservatives increased their vote in ridings with large population of Chinese and South East Asian immigrants. https//macleans.ca/politics/ottawa/harpertalksuptheconservativegriponimmigrantvotes/ One thing Ill add is that in some weird way racism doesnt horrify first generation immigrants like it does your average left leaning individual or even secondgeneration immigrants. I can only speak for my own familys perspective but to my parents allying with a racist coalition for perceived economic gain isnt some horrible deal with the devil its something theyve been doing for their entire time in America. Its not so much MAGA is so unbelievably racist its more of course they are thats old news weve accepted it long ago. I can’t speak intelligently to the other countries but for American and Hispanics I think the answer is fairly simple. Hispanic people are just more religious and conservative culturally . As the DNC moved farther away from traditional conservative family and religious values it’s been alienating Hispanic people Because Immigrants largely come from conservative backgrounds. They dont all vote based on racial divides and when the side that in theory supports them also supports things they are wholly against be it trans issue abortion rights or even free market economics. That last one is interesting since the right acts like they are all free loaders but in reality most come to work to better their lives and their families lives. So they tend to have a more rightwing economic outlook. They believe hard work and taking chances is how you get ahead so they will support a more rightwing economics. Balance all that against the idea that one side doesnt tlike the color of them they may say well maybe they dont but i dont think they will actively purge me and the other side supports things that I believe will negatively impact my life regardless of their support of my skin color. I have always assumed it is simply that once you become America you realize your quality of life and wealth decrease in relation to population increases. If your area gets overrun will poor illegal immigrants it affects every aspect of public service drives up cost of living and makes the job market more competitive. And of course higher taxes. 1 theyre not a monolithic bloc at all this is just incorrect 2 greatly increasing migration strains services like public education makes jobs harder to find and may make lowcost housing harder to access 3 rightwing parties are social conservative Assimilation Equilibration the Liberal reality that background doesnt define identity Immigrating from a conservative country doesnt make you a liberal in a more liberal country My grandmother was a Mexican immigrant my great grandfather literally rode with Pancho Villawe have photos of them together in Monterey and she LOATHED every other Mexican person who drew breath. She refused to allow her kids to learn Spanish. She bleached her hair and married a dentist as was rich. Every other immigrant was worse than human garbage to her. I always found that pretty upsetting… Im metro Chicago immigrant European and middle eastern overwhelmingly vote for Trump. My wife is Serbian and they love him. They organize voting busses at the churches and old ladies in wheel chairs were pushing to get to vote. If you thinks its MAGA hillbillies only your living in a fantasy land. Crime impacts them more and plays into why they left their home counties they have a mindset of fear. They also tend to be poorer in the US so end up listening to conservative radio for entertainment which plays constantly over AM bands. Working class is most affected by illegal immigration legal immigrants tend to be working class. A lot of legal immigrants are very antiillegal. Also an immigrant community is very socially rightwing usually. Most legal immigrants in the West want to be treated as just citizens like everyone else not signaled out as a minority” Liberal Parties in the West are alienating them by saying you are a minority and therefore you are oppressed. We are your savior therefore you must vote for us”. This type of attitude pushes people who seek to be treated equally to be more conservative. Most immigrants are also coming here because they like how things are not because they want to see things changed. Because they arent brainwashed by decades of western liberalism. They can see how liberal drip with insincerity. To me it’s very simple most cultures are not that socially liberal. And economically liberals serve the top 1% while only paying lip service to the little guy. I honestly think it’s just that simple. If liberals were meeting the economic needs of the working class they’d win. Now republicans definitely aren’t doing this either but their rhetoric is less off putting. Its because the left has no true universal values or fundamental beliefs anymore. After abandoning class as the focus and shifting more and more to identity left seems to have become coalition of diverse interest and advocacy groups. And you just cant for instance pander towards religious muslims and lgbtq at the same time without that collapsing to its own internal contradictions at some point. The left betrayed the working class for corporatism the right convinced them they would wreck the system on their behalf which of course they wont. People will vote for more and more radical candidates if they feel they arent being served. Some of this is down to economics and Im too dumb to explain it. Mark Blyth economist is the one who I heard it from and he used to podcast with a political science professor Carrie Nordlund. Economic shocks authoritarian stability? The turbo corruption and racism isnt explained by economics obviously just the authoritarianism. Rightwing parties are well funded and organized. They seem to have unlimited funds from corporate donors and they use those funds efficiently to deliver a message to immigrant communities. It doesnt matter if the message is untruthful. All that matters is their political party wins so they can deliver promises made to their corporate donors. In New Zealand it doesnt. The 2023 election represented a swing right. But was primarily influenced by two factors Firstly the natural cycle from left to right. Wed been left for a while and things were cycling back right. Secondly the 2020 was characterised by a very popular leader on the left and chaotic leadership on the right. The 2023 election saw a much more balanced leadership battle so a natural swing back to the middle from a previously left position. So everything was naturally moving right. The source you use for New Zealand is pretty rubbish. It looks like a joke blog post based on a joke map. The authors states Today’s post employs an unusual strategy for analyzing electoral geography...doing so in light of popular perceptions of different parts of the city as revealed by a detailed judgmental map of Auckland” .... My analysis of these combined maps is merely suggestive and is not informed by any firsthand knowledge of the city. It should thus be taken with a grain of salt. Your quote basically refers to three middling suburbs. Exactly the sort of middle of the road areas that swing either way as electoral winds shift. Both the author and yourself have made the mistake that these electorates represent immigrant communities. Failing to recognise that what you are seeing is instead a joke stereotype map of a highly multicultural city. The whole interpretation has a large does of ignorance flavoured with a mild seasoning of casual lowlevel racism. I was in high school in 1994 during the Proposition 187 conflict in an outer rim suburb of Los Angeles. It got pretty ugly. Most people knew that its about *illegal* immigration was more often than not the publicly acceptable version of damned Mexicans are ruining the state! Me Hey wait a minute. Them Dont worry youre one of the good ones. If I had a dime for every time I heard that... The thing is there were some among the older generations of MexicanAmericans who wanted in on that too. People my age mostly couldnt get away with that. My grandparents were fairly racist and the people they disliked most of all were Mexican immigrants. What they never wanted to acknowledge was that the same things that they and certain white people said about the Mexican immigrants of the 1990s had *also* been said about the Mexican immigrants of the 1910s. My greatgrandparents. People said even worse things in public way back when but in the 1990s everyone knew what was still being said behind closed doors. As for my grandparents part of it was the classic American immigrant tradition of pulling up the ladder behind yourself. The Irish did that to the Italians and Poles who in turn did that to the Latinos and Asians and so on. Top that off with a heaping helping of internalized racism. They spent their childhoods as second class citizens in one of the more miserable California farm towns its still a dump to this day and then when they did make it into the postwar homeowner class they still had to deal with the fact that it was the 1950s. It was a lot easier than being Black but there was still some bullshit. I think there was a lot of selfhate issues going on there. They internalized things. Which leads into the sociological concept of cascading racism. Kissing up while kicking down. Its driven by the pain of your past the lessthanideal features of your present and the hope that in the future youll get to be a fullfledged sansasterisk member of the majority. OP You really cant figure out why legal immigrants who might have had to wait 10 years for a Green Card doesnt want to vote for the party of open borders? A lot of Trumps popularity is due to him being perceived as a revolutionary leader similar to Obama in many ways. Revolutionary leaders appeal to those who think the current system is severely broken unable to be fixed in time by incremental change. Hispanic here.... Ill explain it for you... its really easy to grasp. A large portion of FIRST GENERATION this is a key point Hispanics are trying their hardest to survive in the current version of America. They are getting by with grit and determination. This population of new voters only cares about one and one thing only…… Money having money and maintain the access to money that they need to survive. This isn’t a position of greed and naked capitalistic beliefs. These are people who have been TRULY poor for most of their lives and they struggle hard to make It to America so that they could have the chance to reach some semblance of success. These folks know that the only way to get there is through money. The economic downturn that was caused by Covid impacted these people A LOT!!!! Inflation had a major impact on their lives and their ability to maintain their lives on what little that they had. They saw their purchasing power evaporate and their needs to put a roof over their heads and food on their table for their families was a direct threat.. Here is the harsh truth about this voting block and this is the part where other Hispanics that read this will get offended. This ‘First Generation” voting block does not care nor understand the US Constitution. They come from parts of the world where there is no America equivalent of the US Constitution so this voting block does not vote for the ideals of constitutional representation. They are strictly voting to stay alive. So…… sadly and unfortunately these people turned to Trump because Trump lied to them and said that he would bring down the cost of living… Trump is not going to bring down the cost of living. Prices are not coming down ever again. They didn’t get that because they are not familiar enough with how the American economy works. On top of that Trump is also deporting most of their family members. You get the government that you vote for……… They have been able to define democrats as socialist and communist which are countries that most of these immigrants came from. that + immigration problems hurt dems in 2024 My wife is an immigrant and tells me that the people most fighting to stop immigration from her country are other immigrants from her country. She also tells me that people from her country are far more racist hostile and mean toward other people from her country than she has ever seen from anyone in the USA. When I ask her why she cant really say since she doesnt feel this way at all herself. She said if she has to guess its because the journey to the USA is extremely difficult and traumatizing. A lot of what she sees is the trauma. Interestingly many of the racists forming the very rightwing movements that the immigrants they hate are allying with would have their own explanation most immigrants from nonWesternized countries dont actually believe in Western values and are importing their own conservative repressive values. In other words the same explanation given to justify Islamophobia in Europe could be turned around to explain why immigrants would vote for the parties heightening and exploiting that Islamophobia. Note that Im not saying that Im agreeing with the racists on this but it is food for thought. There are people in this country &amp world which actually think for themselves. I know that may be a novel concept to many readers here. Legal immigrants and US citizens are against illegal immigration. This is not rocket science. While many of the answers here arent wrong and have a valid point of view i do wonder how many of those commenting are immigrants themselves? Its important to ask the people themselves and not just have other people answer for them. 1. Immigration 2. Taxation 3. Inconsistent messaging from left parties As an immigrant myself there are topics my opinions swing left of center gun control mental Health women’s reproductive rights to right of center taxation and immigration. For those wondering on the immigration part in a country like the US legal immigrants especially those from India and China have to wait nearly 15 years just to get their permanent residency even after holding advanced degrees which is incredibly frustrating. And then tack on another 57 years after that to get US citizenship. Because the left is increasingly becoming the party for out of touch white rich people. Hard for immigrants to have much in common with those people especially if the things they are pushing are things like gender ideology. Not that gender ideology is a bad thing but most people don’t care about that stuff especially immigrants Immigrating is hard. Crossing the border undetected is hard drywalling and roofing are hard. Men like that prefer tough talking macho politicians over ones that have a soft spot for people like them. The controlled opposition parties have openly abandoned working for the voters and when that happens the voters choose people who promise air. It’s not really the case in Australia But that’s probably mostly because of how incompetent the Liberals are at appealing to anyone except boomer homeowners. Historically I believe Chinese Australians voted strongly for the Liberals our centreright party. Trump basically was a used car salesman telling you all the great things about the car but leaving out that the engine and transmission will fail as soon as the car leaves the lot. His whole life was about the grift and fleecing but the people. Put that all in a populist message that he stole from bernie and the hungry poor populace went for it. Learning from the loss in 2020 they turned to a propaganda war in social media and on the airwaves. Thisviscwhat won them the election. What did you say were the biggest swing changes? Hispanics young males and the lesser educated I love the poorly educated that is exactly where the propaganda machine was focused the most feeding daily doses of mis/d isinformation. One of the top searched quedtions the days following the election was how can i change my vote right away they realized they had been duped but too little too late. That in conjunction with what the right dubiously called legal voter suppression in the millions gave trump control. Not to mention some indifference on the part of the left So no there is no great increase in the support for the right in the US to the contrary the only way the right can get any support is through duping/gaslighting the populace. Its all in the message unfortunately which the right has relied on to this point. Once the mask comes off it is too late Its called pulling up the ladder. They move to the US or UK or whatever to live in a richer country. Theyre worried the place they left will follow them 1. Tech oligarchs and media moguls are putting their fingers on the scales making sure right wing parties are promoted in their algorithms and rationalized in the news. 2. The left has abandoned the poor for identity politics and woke culture. These are election poison you wouldnt believe how unpopular these are among working class people. Theres a big disconnect between the left wing politicians and the working class. Ive met a good number who are desperate to feel more safe. Authoritarians entire presentation is a lust For safety. The problem is of course that the thing the authoritarian is going offer to try to make the world safe from usually sounds very specific at first. So you come from someplace unsafe. Youve come to some place thats supposed to be safer and you want it to be safer. And theres a guy whos selling you safety. And the autocrat starts enumerating threats that you can sort of go yeah I dont want that. I came here the right way in there these sneaky people who are sneaking in. Yeah we should stop them! But these enumerations are illusory. And when the threats promised do not materialize the targeted threat group has to grow and the nature of the threats have to grow. Project the illusion of strength the autocrat must also project the illusion of danger. So if I get you excited about undocumented aliens and then I tell you that there are millions of them. And then I give you the example that I can only get rid of a handful of them and we need to do more. That sounds like a good start. But two or three weeks after that start is taking hold you start noticing that millions of people have not been dealt with in whatever form. And so that means that alleged billion of people are still out there. But the thing that was their threats never materialized. A million undocumented aliens were coming for my job but I still have my job. They were eating all the cats and dogs in Springfield except no ones complaining about missing cats and dogs and nothing seems to be getting eaten. So as the threat proves itself false in the impotence of the autocrat himself the autocrat has to retarget. Needs a bigger more vague threat that he can say well you know I thought it was the the undocumented but its actually the asylum seekers and then its not just the asylum seekers but theres a secret couple of gang members being sent by Venezuela to the raft of the silence. For the bad asylum seekers. But now theres a promised gang that is infiltrating coming to commit extreme violence and you know all these foreigners are killing all whatever Young women. But then they get together and search for the young women killed by the immigrants and they can get to like nine moms. Which given the size and scope of both the United States and the United States internal criminal issues and the alleged size of this incoming threat.. just doesnt work in the math. So you have the need to create an everexpanding and ever more nebulous threat pool so you can start trying to correlate observed events with alleged threats. And during this entire set of exchanges the immigrants are trying to pull the ladder up behind them. Not because they really actually hate other immigrants but because they feel the need to be inside the shell of judgment so that they will not themselves be judged. And they feel the need to have their jobs and positions to be inside the shell of guardianship. They want to ensure that they and their circumstances are part of the aggressive Outlook instead of the thing that the Outlook is being directed towards. Im not one of them. Is sadly a unavoidable human instinct. Think of the makeup artist who got sent to the El Salvador in death camp. He knows hes going someplace where being gay is a problem that will multiply his plate. But he is so worried about trying to say that he is not one of these socalled gang members that hes like Im not a gang member I am this harmless thing I am a gay makeup artist. Its trying to separate yourself from the targeted herd and you will reach for the the most obvious features of your life that dont support. Members of the horrible day and would hate gay people so if I say Im gay Im proving that Im not a member of this horrible day and etc. And this cycles back so they even deeper in Union City and Im going to digress like that so theyre like me as you can tell from this text.. In an emergency we get trapped in our patterns. We used to think people panicked during a fire but people are too calm. We used to think people would be smart about exits but a person in a burning building will actually travel a significant distance through the burning building ignoring obvious accents because in their panic they know that the correct normal and safe way out of the building is the door they always leave for which is the door probably closest to their car rather than closest to their starting position at their desk or in the meeting room or whatever. People will stand in line at a cashier to tell the local authority that the back of the store is burning. And the cat or the front of the store right next to the cashier is on fire in a small but dangerous way but the cashier knows but the thing youre supposed to do as a cashier is continue to check people out and the people in line know that the thing youre supposed to do as a customer is get checked out with your stuff. People have blocked emergency exits trying to get to their carryon luggage. Well the sense of social unrest is a form of being in a building on fire. Not me. Im one of the good ones. Im not like the people youre looking for. We must stand together against them. This even extends to the grocery illogical. undocumented people are a real problem. And I know Im officially undocumented but I am almost through getting my green card so I dont count as undocumented right? they have documents about who I am right? Theres a great line from Twilight zone episode where Burgess Merediths character who is about to die has locked a high state official in his apartment thats about to be exploded. The high state official said theyll come for me. And Burgess Merediths character asks query? Who is they? The recent immigrants want to be part of they. They imagine that theres a they. But the state does not believe in cohesion. They are only a they in the middle of wanton action. The rest of the time the state is a churning mass of internal conflict with no real unity. And the more authoritarian mistake the less immedi there is. Because it comes a point where everyone is trying to satisfy of the dictator by any random means available. https//www.imdb.com/title/tt0734667/?ref_=ext_shr I come from a conservative immigrant Hispanic family. For them it comes from a strong fear of communism combined with living in a red state where it seems like the most American thing to be is to be a Republican and they want to be patriotic to prove they belong here. Theres also a desire to align with whiteness. Theres also the fact that they have been isolated from their home countries so they havent been exposed to the debates in the country of origin that leads to social progress in the home country. Having said that the issues like abortion gay rights etc are secondary. But immigrants come from different places and contexts its very hard to generalize. Ill point out that in the US the majority of Hispanic voters went for Kamala Harris 58% regardless of any shifts. Latinos arent the reason Trump is in power unless you assume nonLatino whites have zero agency and simply must vote for Trump. A lot of immigrants and nonwhites who traditionally voted Democratic are not socially liberal. In the case of the US some of them lived under authoritarianism. Those who didnt mind it and came for the economic opportunity are not put off by it and may even like the strong man elements. Then you have the Cubans who associate the GOP and not the Dems with being antiCastro. As the Democratic party hitches itself to progressive cultural causes these voters start thinking less about racism and more about messaging that they find offputting. So some will flip and many will stay home. In my experience immigrants are terrified of anything being communist/socialist and the GOP has done an amazing job at branding the left as such. Why are a percentage of immigrants across the west voting conservative politics? A better question that doesn’t make it seem like the majority of immigrants are voting against their fellow immigrants. Most immigrants are those who had the means to earn some money/education and relocate. Most authoritarian governments are some form of left wing at least according to the propaganda and they come to friendlier countries to have a fair shot at life and earn themselves a living. Right wing rhetoric of building yourself up getting educated and keeping what you earn resonates well with them. Throw in an adherence to religion and family values at least that they preach not practice and thats going to appeal to a lot of immigrants. A few reasons some specific to immigrants others not * Cultural conservatism in the old country as others have stated * Fuck you I got mine * The incongruence between the Democrats messaging on economically helping the working classes and their inaction on actually checking the oligarchy * General economic dissatisfaction affecting workingclass people more * The woke liberal not being derogatory here open to suggestions on a better term for the subculture that values inclusion representation and cultural sensitivity while also being very LGBT friendly and opposed to many gender norms set of values and identity is very much a western thing and is not something many people from nonwestern countries identify with. And while Kamalas campaign wasnt super woke democrats do blow the woke dog whistle just like republicans blow the racist one. And nonwoke people hear it and it can be offputting. because right wing parties treat them as equals rather than inferior beings that cant succeed on their own merit and need government to put their thumb on the scale to help them. also many **legal** immigrants dont like being lumped in together with **illegal** immigrants into one catch all category with no distinction. then of course you have the democratic partys social policies. [removed] A leftie from New Zealands point of view. Many immigrants to New Zealand come from countries with socially conservative values such as India various South East Asian nations and South Africa. While culturally diverse these regions often uphold more traditional views on family gender and sexuality. Additionally many Māori and Pasifika communities are strongly rooted in Christian faiths further reinforcing socially conservative attitudes. Although these patterns aren’t universal they shape political tendencies. The Green Party once primarily focused on environmental issues has become the most vocal champion of LGBTQ+ rights positioning itself as the de facto standardbearer for progressive social values. Labour the centreleft major party aligns with many of these positions albeit in a more moderated form. This creates a bifurcation on the left between socially progressive voters and more centrist or traditionallyminded ones. From the perspective of religious or conservative communities Labour is often viewed as complicit in advancing the Green Party’s social agenda. This perception can lead to community leaders discouraging support for Labour framing a vote for them as indirectly endorsing policies that conflict with their values. Further to this many Indian South East Asian and South African immigrants come to New Zealand seeking a better life freedom from state oppression and the opportunities offered by a liberal democratic freemarket society. Business ownership and economic advancement are often central to this pursuit. National traditionally seen as the political extension of probusiness values continues to attract support from entrepreneurs developers and highnetworth individuals within these communities reinforcing its appeal as the party of economic opportunity and stability. The Luxonled government represents a centreright ideologically pragmatic yet culturally conservative coalition. It marks a clear pivot away from Labour’s progressive vision both economically and socially toward a politics of discipline enterprise and national recalibration. While not explicitly neoconservative it carries echoes of AngloAmerican centreright governance with ACT and NZ First further pushing its assertive tone. For immigrant communities that value stability entrepreneurship and social conservatism this orientation resonates deeply offering a political home that aligns both with their economic aspirations and cultural values. Speaking on the Canadian side of things its fairly obvious that immigrants are going to be more right wing because more immigrants are coming from conservative countries. I imagine thats true across the Western world. When most of our immigrants are from India or China what would you expect to happen? Indian and Chinese cultures are much more conservative of course those communities are going to gravitate towards the Conservatives. It is true that the Liberal Party did actually used to do well with Indian and Chinese immigrants but I would posit that that was the anomaly not the norm. The Liberals did active outreach in those communities and a lot of hard work to win them over while the Conservatives basically ignored them. As soon as the Conservatives put the same effort into those communities that the Liberals did they saw instant results. Those communities were never wedded to the Liberals their natural home is the Conservatives. Its just that the Liberals were the only ones putting in the effort for awhile. Religion. Hispanics and a ton of Asians have been force fed a very American conservative version of Evangelical Christianity. The root issue is the Left demands perfection from its candidates. If a politician doesn’t tick every single box they refuse to support them. For the right ticking a single box is enough. Some voted for Trump because he’s prolife. Others for tax cuts. Others for immigration control. Others for Egg prices. One single issue is sufficient. Speaking from my own personal experience my father uses Facebook to get all his information and 99% of the political stuff is targeted pro Trump disinformation. Add in this idea that he’s some kind of business genius and the desire in most immigrants heart to chase the American dream they see him as a better option for obtaining it versus democrats who appear like they are giving hand outs to less deserving people. They kinda swallow up the meritocracy facade that conservatives dish out they think one party believes hard work pays off and the other party promotes laziness. They also are in a safe space monetarily so they believe Trump will cut their taxes. It’s mostly them buying Republican propaganda. Tie in their cultural conservative upbringings from their native homelands they believe republicans align with their values. The internet is dangerous for boomer immigrants here in the states. Immigrants? do you mean newly naturalized citizens? I doubt it’s increasingly”/ certainly not anymore. For the answer to this one must read the Dr. Seusse classic Sneeches on the Beaches. Man that was a long post so I didn’t read it. My only comment is I’ve noticed a lot of the people protesting outside of family planning clinics are Hispanic. Maybe that’s why they don’t like the Democratic Party. Id strongly prefer green policy being the rule of the planet. I felt that way 30 years ago too and I was optimistic then. But if the planet wont by the numbers selfimpose a serious war on anthropogenic climate change then I know the mass and massively destructive migration of equatorial humans into temperate zones is coming. Since the mass migration both northerly and southerly is coming I have a very reasonable expectation that it be strongly controlled. Since some of our peers are putting up procedural barriers to the controls we need and will in greater proportion need in the future we will be forced to knock those barriers down. Since we will be forced to destroy the obstruction to controls we will need power. Power even if we dislike and distrust the armies we are forced to raise to get that power. Because the global left cannot force the global right to join a war on climate change and neither will developing nations and because education isnt working fast enough....the global we has to go to Plan B. Plan B means militant border defense. It sucks so hard that many nations feel forced to ally themselves with autocrats nationalists racists and hawks to prepare for a dystopian future that might be preventable in ideal conditions. Conditions where we trusted one another enough to be a proEarth team. We do not live in an ideal world. We live in this world among selfish selfdestructive people and if you cant beat them....join them. Looking through the comments putting the practical issues aside it seems to me Democrats think the law is bad and breaking the law is ok as long as it’s for a good faith? I think one of the reason that US is a promising country because it upholds the law that minimizes many oppressive issues other countries have e.g. corruption oligarch etc. I think debate the philosophy of upholding the law is more urgent than any other practical issues. It’s absurd to debate the healthiness of branches and leaves when you have a corrupted root. Hmmmm let’s think. An immigrant who spent 37 years working their tail off to become a legal citizen doesn’t support the party that encourages illegal immigration? Who would have thought!? Because they feel increasingly well integrated in the host country. Because racism and xenophobia are globally on the descent so second generation immigrants dont feel like they have to be defensive about their own civil rights. This makes them free to vote however they want so they will split along the left and right leaning lines just as everyone else instead of converging in the party that is traditionally specifically proimmigrant. This makes pro immigrant policy less relevant to electoral politics and allows politics to drift more explicitly xenophobic at the same time as immigrants themselves dont feel xenophobia in their daily life. This is easily explainable if we remember most people arent politics nerds and are in fact pretty low information voters. Because immigrants in general are not very open to LGBTQ2 issues or abortion ... For hispanics they are largely catholic. Its not hard to imagine that its nit hard to win over their vote in under terms of conservative values. This shift isnt as surprising as it seems if you look at who’s actually showing up to address the problems people are facing. Across the West many immigrant and workingclass voters are backing rightwing parties not because they’re drawn to reactionary ideology but because they’re responding to a vacuum—of respect of security of responsibility. Progressive parties too often speak in the language of rights and recognition but fail to back it up with action structure or tangible improvements in daily life. The result? Communities living with crime poor infrastructure and economic precarity don’t feel heard. They’re being offered slogans about inclusion while rightwing parties talk directly about order work pride and protection. But we shouldnt mistake the symptom for the cause. Many immigrants are deeply committed to their adopted countries. They believe in work in family in earning their place. What they’re not seeing from progressives is a politics that links rights with responsibilities contribution with recognition and economic fairness with national belonging. Instead of playing defence on immigration or security the left needs to reframe the debate * From identity politics to contribution politics focus on what people build give and do for society—not who they are or where they’re from. * From redistribution to participation offer shared institutions like national service or local investment platforms where people contribute sidebyside creating civic bonds. * From handouts to earned dignity support policies that reward work and care—like child tax credits worker ownership and civic service pathways—not just cash transfers. The real division in our societies isnt native vs. immigrant. It’s between those who *create value*—caregivers builders teachers—and those who *extract it*—speculators rentiers and lobbyists who bend the system in their favour. A compelling progressive vision would redraw the moral lines accordingly. Until then we can expect more of this realignment to continue—not because rightwing parties have better solutions but because they’re reading the emotional terrain of today’s electorate more effectively. Its time the left caught up—not by copying the right’s answers but by asking the right questions. Fascism. It rots your brain and leads to shit like Nazi Germany and the Holocaust IMO their culture. I say this as a progressive. A lot of Hispanic cultures are pretty homophobic for example and deff arent cool with trans folk. Also very religious and therefore more conservative leaning in general. Especially with Hispanic men machismo culture is very real. Its all about pulling the ladder up and assimilation this has been true throughout history. The old immigrants want to fit in how do they do this by othering and hating on new immigrants. Right wing and conservative parties often mean making it and something many minority groups aspire to so when its time to jump ship they will. Because they left areas that were shit holes and see how democratic leadership will lead them right back to the place they just left! The only thing shaping politics right now is Social Media. Gone are the days of Traditional Media having such control. Now Social Media companies have full control over the News Propaganda and Influencing what goes Viral or not. Add to that the privacy they enjoy without any transparency over how they enforce their rules they can nitpick who they want to ShadowBan. And with the Bribes they get on top of Bot Farms bought over and in full force within ThirdWorlds their so called Algorithm is easily skewed to favour those with wealth and power. An interesting article that addresses the theory that political shift is not ideologically driven https//immigrationlab.org/project/migrationdrivingsupportradicalrightnotwaypeoplethink/ Well when it comes to the Hispanic in America voting right it’s because many of them have lived through and seen first hand what left wing politics like communism or socialism can do. Overall it’s possible that immigrants in general could be less susceptible to getting brainwashed by the MSM or that they tend to think more logic based. Someone who identified as liberal 15 years ago would now identify as independent or right. The point is the leftwing liberal party has gone way further left and many people just don’t share those extreme views or maybe they’re still liberal and just have been alienated by certain views that have become popular on the left in recent years. Or they just don’t like the current state of their country and want to give another party the opportunity to be in power to see if they do any better. I don’t know those are just some opinions of mine. I’m sure some will disagree and that’s okay. I’m not claiming to be an expert or know everything. Because regardless of you’re political stance illegal immigration is a problem that needs a solution the right is offering one the left is not One reason I’ve heard in a Chinese community is that they don’t want their kids to be trans Post 87 Assuming there was a Trump effect that swung the Canadian and Australian elections which elections are you eyeing next? Author CptPatchesPost Text Yes I know there is no definite agreement of how much Trump influenced either election especially the Australian election. Im not looking to debate the existence of Trump’s impact on either election. Just humor me. But I do want to know what elections you all are paying attention to. Could Trump be poison for more conservative parties? . This is a subreddit for genuine discussion * Please keep it civil. Report rulebreaking comments for moderator review. * Dont post low effort comments like joke threads memes slogans or links without context. * Help prevent this subreddit from becoming an echo chamber. Please dont downvote comments with which you disagree. Violators will be fed to the bear. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Korea’s former president invoked martial law with claims of fake news and election fraud reminiscent of Trump. He was impeached and his party is likely going to be crushed in the June election. Sundays Romanian presidential election should be interesting. The leading candidate farright and Eurosceptic firebrand George Simion has wrapped himself in Trumps flags. Simion might actually be *benefitting* from the association—hes currently leading in most polls whereas he was trailing far behind last year and Trump is relatively popular in Romania. That said a lot has transpired over the course of this election and its hard to say what effect Trump has had in isolation from the other events—not least of which was the court annulment of last years presidential election. The cancellation of last years results was widely perceived as a backhanded maneuver to halt a farright/proRussian victory and it triggered widespread protests. Simion has benefitted quite a bit from the fallout. Virginia. It should reveal a lot about what backlash there is to his first year in office. Whatever Trump effect” there may be doesn’t seem to have had much of an effect in Europe. The European far right remains on the march and growing in popularity. I suppose maybe elections in Poland Portugal and Romania could be an experiment for this but in my view it’s already refuted by the continued success of the AfD in Germany RN in France Meloni in Italy etc. Sheinbaum in Mexico is probably bolstered by her strength resisting Trump like Carney in Canada so I guess there’s a Trump effect there but she would probably be popular anyway and Mexico’s right would be nowhere regardless. It seems this Trump effect” idea really could only be applied to the Anglosphere. More cultural overlap and less is lost in translation. And even then New Zealand’s conservatives were showing unpopularity preTrump. UK’s Tories are unpopular on their own merits. Reform UK has continued making gains though they have also probably escaped links to Trump by more actively clashing with him and Musk. I think the Trump effect in Australia was a bit overstated anyway Labor probably would’ve still won but maybe by a smaller margin. In my view it was only really a major electiondefining factor in Canada. New Zealands next election probably isnt until next year but its the most culturally similar place to the two countries youve listed so it will be an interesting test to see if the Trump effect will have some impact on the incumbent rightwing government there. The election in Portugal is this weekend. Honestly its expected to have next to no effect. There was some attempt to pin the populist right leader to Trump regarding tariffs as he was showing support for the Trump style of protectionism but it was a minor subject. Here the big topic is immigration from south Asia. The mainstream parties are moving right on the topic including the centerleft in an attempt to quash the progress from the populist right over the last few years. Trump has no effect on this locally. Canadians were looking for any reason to not vote conservative this election. Their leader is highly disliked even by a lot of the conservatives I know. Is this really an observeable phenomenon or is this just us Americans assuming the world revolves around us? I mean I feel like the Trump effect is VERY clearly documented in this past Canadian election. But was it really a similar effect for Australia? There was definitely a Trump effect in Canada. The outcome reflected rage against Trump for wanting to make Canada the 51st State. Setting aside the impossibility that Canadians would ever want to join the USA Trump definitely didn’t think it through. Be careful what you wish for. You may get it. Compared with the USA Canada is more left of center than the USA and they would be enough to deny the Republicans the Presidency forever. I certainly hope that Trump singlehandedly destroys the alt right Christian Nationalist Nazis al over the world! Sweet revenge. While its not until 2028 unless a snap election is called the Dutch election will be one to watch since its current lead by the rightleaning parties with PVV the farright party having the most seats. There wasnt a trump effect in Australia. Fundamentally the conservative parties line up of policies and representatives is not up to scratch and the opposition leader was seen as cruel and unfeeling from his back history as a police officer then immigration minister. What actually occurred was that people only start looking at the opposition 3 months out from the election which happened to coincide with Trumps first 100days of crazy. Polling prior to this was more a measure of government performance rather than comparison of potential options. The same effect can be seen in historical Australian elections. The people looked at the opposition and decided what they where offering wasnt good enough. What trump did create was a general apathy to politics itself. I suspect if it wasnt for the compulsory voting system in Aus there would have been a fall in participation. Post 88 Has political leadership become more about surviving scandal than delivering results? Ive written a piece examining Sadiq Khan’s third term as Mayor of London where the headlines have increasingly focused on bizarre and theatrical stories A Deputy Mayor who apparently faked a professional football career A Night Czar” who vanished with little explanation Swiftgate” where Khan accepted concert tickets from a City Hall contractor The role of Mayor now seems less about governing London and more about managing optics and weathering criticism. It made me wonderare we seeing a broader trend in politics where success is measured less by policy outcomes and more by a politician’s ability to outlast controversy? Would genuinely be interested to hear what people here think. https//medium.com/@aaronjohnnewbury/themayorandthemidfielder9e88f068a7aa . This is a subreddit for genuine discussion * Please keep it civil. Report rulebreaking comments for moderator review. * Dont post low effort comments like joke threads memes slogans or links without context. * Help prevent this subreddit from becoming an echo chamber. Please dont downvote comments with which you disagree. Violators will be fed to the bear. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* At least for congress it has become not just about avoiding scandal but avoiding any controversy. Doing anything at this point is controversial including the most basic spending bills. Its a major reason why congress seems so apathetic about the executive clearly taking their power with some executive orders. Especially the stuff related to DOGE. Congress would rather let the Executive do all the governing and make all the policy decisions because that way they don’t have to do any if it. That makes reelection easier in their eyes because since they havent done anything by extension they havent done anything the voters will not like. You can help pass a bill that helps 3/4 of the country in a noticeable way but if 1/4 or even 1/8 of the country doesn’t like it it can cost you your position in congress. That’s all that it’s ever really been. The same goes for senior executives at corporations or really any other leadership position. Kind of? Politics in the US have all become vibes based. I believe that If the median voter were asked why they voted for whom they did they would not start listening policies. Instead a voter would answer with something vapid like he shakes things up” or she gets things done.” It’s less about what they’re saying and more about what aura people get from you. So in a sense surviving scandals contributes to how people think of a politician. Delivering results I won’t say isn’t important. But it does come secondary imo. All in all People aren’t going to keep electing the same politicians if economic conditions deteriorate. But if everything stays the same and none of the promises are kept by politicians I’m not so sure they are getting voted out. Also Trump almost won in 2020. Like life was considerably worse and he fanned the flames which made things worse. He didn’t come out with a plan in response to Covid. Nevertheless the election was close. Closer than anyone was predicting so idk. If Trump is anything to go by political leadership is about *intentionally* creating a scandal to own the libs and then still not delivering results to also own the libs somehow Everything in the US is theatrics while letting Reagans policies make life worse for the working class at the federal level. Some exceptions where our representatives will wake up in the nursery home and pass a bill swearing more money/allegiance to Israel and/or fund Neverending wars overseas. We live in a post truth era. You could make a literal perfect society and people would still hate you because whatever Russian puppet is in charge of your countries far right party coulda done it better. Scandals are now so common we kind of just accept them. For the highest up it takes something massive to kill them and as we are slowly realzing scandals cannot kill some people at all. No. Harris lost and she wasnt in a scandal. The voters emotions toward the candidate are primary. Survival of the not most fit. Survival of the most Gamer systems exploiter. Post 89 Are Reagan Republicans responsible for the creation of the MAGA movement? Their support for immigration for free trade and for foreign aid are almost completely opposite of MAGA priorities. I frequently hear Reagan era and Bush era Republicans on various politics programs excoriating the MAGA movement. But I do not hear much admission of accountability. Instead they tend to blame Democrats for the MAGA movement believing that woke policies that emphasize identity politics are to blame for the MAGA movement. However couldnt one argue that Reaganera Republicans are perhaps more responsible for the MAGA movement? Reagenera Republicans believed in in and . And Reagan was wildly successful in achieving these goals through the which legalized many undocumented immigrants his idea for the and his increased spending on foreign aid both miliitary and financial. These policies seem at significant odds with MAGA priorities which are staunchly opposed to undocumented immigration to free trade and to foreign aid. If indeed the MAGA movement is a reaction to Reagan era policies it suggests Democrats could win back more MAGA voters by adopting a platform that is stricter on immigration protects domestic manufacturing and limits foreign aid in favor of domestic spending. . This is a subreddit for genuine discussion * Please keep it civil. Report rulebreaking comments for moderator review. * Dont post low effort comments like joke threads memes slogans or links without context. * Help prevent this subreddit from becoming an echo chamber. Please dont downvote comments with which you disagree. Violators will be fed to the bear. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Id trace the beginnings of MAGA to Rush Limbaugh who began the turn in mainstream conservative discourse to being less about policy and values and more about just shitting on liberals. Whether he was a Reagan Republican or a Gingrich Republican is a historical question I cant really answer. The funded the Tea Party movement but then dropped them because they didnt have a plan. The untended part of the garden grew strong and from it . Not really these people were always irrational delusional insane racists and bigots. McCarthyism was strong and existent long before reagan entered the picture. Reagan didnt create these people he harnessed them and Nixon. But these people have always been the same people and the only difference is that the nutjobs became enough of a critical mass to now control the entire party and the media landscape allows them to nutjob radicalize each other the establishment leadership no longer has the power to direct talking points or direction for control of the partys positions. You used to have to wait 72 hours for fox news to start the spin of the latest scandal nowadays the maga sycophants spontaneously and emergently create every possible conspiracy theory and delusional explanation for how to deflect blame and scapegoat something else and the rest of them naturally spread the most broadly and powerfully effective ones to the top and share them naturally all before trump can even tweet on the issue in many cases because hes busy golfing or on the toilet. I wouldn’t blame Reagan Republicans” as voters necessarily but I would blame the rise of right wing radio and its particular style of let’s yell about liberals” as opposed to here is why republicans are good” as the turning point of why we’ve gotten to this point. Reagan himself is almost a nonfactor but because a lot of people thought Carter sucked and Reagan was leader when this mass brainwashing started is why he had total control over the right in America until Trump came along. Trump is the even stupider version of Reagan because now he benefits from the 40 years of brainwashing that libs are bad” get you. I know I should probably be more subtle and descriptive here but I really don’t think it’s necessary. Go back further. MAGA doesnt exist without the right wing disinformation ecosystem and while that worsened under Reagan it was born of Nixon. It was created to ensure that when the next Republican pulled the next Watergate people would be so flooded with right wing media lies that said criminal Republican wouldnt be held accountable. It worked exactly as intended. From Reagan on through to Trump. I think what you can take back to Reagan is the cult of celebrity side of it. Reagan was very charasmatic and hansdome and could talk to the people like no president in a long time. And Trump being old enough to have his fame started during that time and having a lot of Reaganish traits reminds them all of him. He opened the door on the right to a love of celebrity politicians that the left has never really embraced. Reagan won with a lot of one liners that work great on tv and Trump if youre willing to see his strong traits has always been a genius at knowing how to work a camera. \ Instead they tend to blame Democrats for the MAGA movement believing that woke policies that emphasize identity politics are to blame for the MAGA movement. Isnt that similar to a sexual offender blaming the female for how she dressed? The root of the MAGA movement started with Watergate. Roger Ailes Nixons Media Chief and other top Republicans met to decided what went wrong during Watergate. They concluded the issue wasnt the fact Republican operatives broke laws but that Republicans did nto have their own propaganda outlet to counter media organizations publishing facts. Fast forward to the 90s when Roger Ailes teamed up with Rupert Murdoch to start Fox News Entertainment as the Republicans propaganda outlet. Throw in the Heritage Foundations policies they pushed through the Regan and Bush administrations and you have the environment we have today. Maga is a direct descendant of the buchananites. Reagan and Bush defeated them and pushed them down for a generation. It wasnt their policies that caused them they kept them away from us for decades. MAGA is the natural conclusion of the central project of the modern Republican Party. It began in the wake of the civil rights movement and the womens rights movement of the 1960s and 70s. Many Americans did not like these changes and preferred a social hierarchy that had persisted for hundreds of years white men in charge of everything women and people of color know their places and the LGBTQ folks invisible. MAGA and Trumpism are nothing more than a last ditch effort to turn back the clock in a culture war that they have been losing for decades. Open borders not really sure why you or anyone uses that term back then was more about being probusiness and allowing big ag and the service industry use immigrant labor. Foreign aid was just a means of keeping the rest of the world under our control. Nowadays being against those things is scratching a more immediate itch being shitty to people of color. *it suggests Democrats could win back more MAGA voters by adopting a platform that is stricter on immigration protects domestic manufacturing and limits foreign aid* Total nonsense. None of conservatives policies actually matter. They are all about uniting the party by finding some group that they all can hate. It doesn’t matter if they are blacks or immigrants Hispanics or Russians or Liberals or Trans people. It’s all about uniting in their common hatred of some group that is not them. Scapegoating this group lets them avoid responsibility for just about anything they can imagine. If the MAGA movement were directly attributable to something Republicans did decades ago then we should expect this phenomenon to be USexclusive. Yet what we actually see is that racist and protofascist movements have gained strongly in popularity in almost every modern democracy. US democracy was one of the more fragile and corrupt so also one of the first though not the first to fall. We should therefore probably seek the explanation elsewhere such as the rise of social media which have proven to be a breeding ground for hate speech and governments have taken little to no action to regulate social media platforms. The reason people cite Reagan making maga possible is because his sweeping deregulations and giveaways to wall street created an owner class so outrageously powerful and wealthy that ending up with an authoritarianleaning government whether under Trump or somebody else was inevitable. Similar to 1930s Germany theres a point at which corporate interests get so entrenched in government that full corruption happens and we end up with a crackdown to tamp down the inevitable backlash and propaganda to scapegoat unpopular minorities Reganera Republicans were apologists for treason. I dont know what else to call stealing US military antitank and antiaircraft missiles and selling them to Iran less than a year after the hostage crisis. They were also apologists for death squads called contras which were armed by Reagan using the money they made from the aforementioned treason. And they never apologized for hiring cocaine traffickers to smuggle the arms. Reagan and his administration were not good people. What is very interesting as you point out is that they were not just evil vis a vis Nicaragua they were also quite evil towards the United States. Open borders free trade so forth like you said. I never understood the cult of Reagan and I cant wait for it to die. No. Open Borders Free Trade and Foreign Aid are 3 of the 4 pillars of what is called Neoliberalism. The 4th is military intervention to support the global system that supports the above. And in the 90s the Democrats walked **hand in hand** down the aisle with the GOP in that regard. At that time the Democrats merely were more socially progressive wanted higher taxes and more regulations whereas the GOP obviously did not. Open Borders Free Trade and Foreign Aid were policies not under discussion both parties supported it. Reagan may have started down that path I would say a fulcrum point being the firing of the Air traffic Controllers but Clinton was Neoliberal as it gets. Yes. The Heritage Foundation or simply Heritage is an American conservative think tank based in Washington D.C. Founded in 1973 it took a leading role in the conservative movement in the 1980s during the presidency of *Ronald Reagan* whose policies were taken from Heritage Foundation studies including its Mandate for Leadership. Project 2025 also known as the 2025 Presidential Transition Project is a political initiative to reshape the federal government of the United States and consolidate executive power in favor of rightwing policies. *The plan was published in April 2023 by The Heritage Foundation an American conservative think tank in anticipation of Donald Trump winning the 2024 presidential election.* *Project 2025 is a political initiative by the Heritage Foundation* aimed at reshaping the U.S. federal government to favor rightwing policies particularly in anticipation of Donald Trumps potential return to the presidency. It includes a detailed plan for implementing these policies and consolidating executive power often criticized as authoritarian and aligned with Christian nationalist ideals. You have to give it to Bill Clinton as probably the most singularly responsible for the creation of MAGA. Without NAFTA there is no MAGA. Russia pushed it heavily. I remember even as a R primary candidate in 2016 what I found strange was that his supporters were pushing Russian narratives. Then after doing a little digging you see that even foxnews reported this in the heat of the 2024 election https//www.foxnews.com/politics/russiainterfering2024electionhelptrumpusintelligenceofficialssay.amp Both the House Republican intel AND foreign affairs chair accused the MAGA reps of proliferating Russian propaganda on the House floor last year https//www.nbcnews.com/politics/congress/goprepmiketurnerrussianpropagandautteredhousefloorrcna146760 General flynn plead guilty to lying to the FBI about Russian contact https//www.npr.org/2020/11/25/823893821/trumppardonsmichaelflynnwhopleadedguiltytolyingaboutrussiacontact The R Speaker of the House said it in 2016 https//www.washingtonpost.com/world/nationalsecurity/housemajorityleadertocolleaguesin2016ithinkputinpaystrump/2017/05/17/515f6f8a3aff11e7885421f359183e8c_story.html Theres a Republican still in prison for funneling Russian $ to Trump in 2016. He lost his appeal &amp still rots there https//www.politico.com/news/2024/04/19/trumprussianmoneyappealscourt00153339 Lauren Chen just last year admitted to funneling MILLIONS in Russian $ to conservative influencers to spread anti Ukraine pro Russian propaganda on their shows https//www.pbs.org/newshour/politics/wellknownrightwinginfluencersdupedtoworkforcovertrussianoperationusprosecutorssay Attacking Tim Walz Russia was behind a pedo story about him that proved to be false. They also were confirmed to make bomb threats on majority black polling stations https//amp.cnn.com/cnn/2024/11/05/us/georgianoncrediblebombthreatrussia And the list goes on and on. General Mattis also left due to Trump betraying oue allies in favor of Russia... Trump famously leaked Israeli intel to the Russians infuriating Bibi https//www.timesofisrael.com/horrifiedisraeliintelofficialswereshoutingatuscounterpartsovertrumpleak/amp/ On and on and on. MAGA is too stupid and brainwashed to engage with any of this so they mouth drool russia russia russia despite their own people &amp media reporting &amp because their fat rapist pedophile cult leader tells them to respond this way. Reagan Timothy McVeigh Trump The Founding Fathers were Classical Liberals. That is that they believed in Free Trade Civil Rights Representative Democracy Separation of Church and State. Rule of Law and Limited Government. In the 1970s Republicans used to stand pretty solidly for all of these values. Today they have abandoned them all. So if the Republican party has abandoned its Classical Liberal roots then what is it now? Corporate Fascist Oligarchy. If you recall that Timothy McVeigh blew up the federal building in Oklahoma City. He had a manifesto that detailed his political positions. At the time they were the rantings of a crazed terrorist. Today all of the positions of McVeigh are mainstream Republican positions. Mega is what happens when one party of the twoparty system stops playing playing by the rules. We need to have more fail safe in place in order to be able to make sure that bad faith people are easily removed. Just like George Santos he should have never been in there and then they should have absolutely taken him out the Democratic party should have not been the ones that had to tell them they needed to remove him. This presupposes that open borders free trade and foreign aid are actually problems and not just scapegoats. Why are democrats obsessed with pulling in republicans voters? Thats not going to happen. Those lines are drawn. If you want to pull in new voters you have to appeal to nonvoters and the few undecided voters. Give them a reason to vote your way. Running in not republican” isn’t working. It is flatly false that Reaganera Republicans believed in open borders. Their opposition to immigraton was far more passive and covert than the opposition of say Steven Miller and they participated in what was then a common valourization of the National of Immigrants motif in American constructions of identity. I think this detail is a little beside the point compared to the question of where did MAGA begin but at least one reply here should mention it. One of the origins thats worth mentioning which I dont see yet was Newt Gingrichs leadership of in the 80s and 90s which led to the 1990s Republican Revolution and set the tone for Republican retail politics. The ease with which new entrants could become involved in politics with the help of this program took on a new significance when gerrymandering again rose to prominence in the 2000s this time assisted by more sophisticated demographic analysis. Although gerrymandering was not exclusively a Republican phenomena the creation of safe Republican seats combined with the ease of entry to politics and tone that came out of GOPAC created the previously unnamed threat of being primaried or being attacked from a more radical position with greater appeal to Republicans who voted in the primary contest. Depending on the district the attacker once the nomination was secured would then tack with greater or less effort towards the centre to ensure enough Republican votes turned out to secure the election. This fundamentally changed the nature of American politics as it favoured a style that was more adversarial and confrontational than coalitionbuilding and cooperative. These are my very offthecuff recollections anyways. Its been a long time. MAGA is the product of the altright movement that coalesced in the late 2010s. The altright is a movement independent and as you noted often opposed to the neoconservatism of Reagan and his political descendants. However I would not say that the altright is itself a reaction to neoconservatism. Instead I see the altright as the confluence of multiple ideologies like paleoconservatism Dark Enlightenment neoNazism Nouvelle Droite and AFCstyled fascism. Most of the intellectual influence comes from people like Pat Buchanan Paul Gottfried Julius Evola E. Christian Kopff Oswald Spengler Francis Parker Yockey Jean Raspail Clyde N. Wilson William Luther Pierce William S. Lind Dominique Venner Mel Bradford Steve Sailer HansHermann Hoppe Friedrich Hayek Nick Land and Curtis Yarvin. I think the most significant contribution of neoconservatism in the rise of MAGA is how their conservative media machine helped create a postreality world for vast swaths of the country. This allowed the altright to enter the mainstream and ultimately coopt the neoconservatives own monster to displace them as the dominant faction within the Republican Party. I think these Republicans are closer to neoNazis than Reagan. They’ve been going hard on conspiracy theories and following neo Nazi’s objections to DEI which have been decades in the making while rejecting the free trade and immigration stances of Reagan although they are still very prorich and antiunion and proIsrael. We wouldn’t have MAGA without the internet though. A lot of the conspiracy stuff seems to be bleeding out from Russia too. No lol. Obama broke their brains and created the Tea Party. Conservative pundits latched on to that and gave a voice to the fringe elements of the right and that’s why we have Newsmax and OAN. Republicans tried to keep it sane with a McCain and Romney but 2016 was the culmination of the Tea Party’s evolution. Palin was the foundation crumbling but it hadn’t gone full nut job” until Cheetolini took over. I think Jimmy Carter was the basis for it. His ascendance was based on the populist draw of Evangelical Christians Democrats working people and the spring board was the reaction against the Nixon four years. Then when Reagan came along he actually flipped a lot of those in the Jimmy Carter camp over to the RR GOP side because shills for his administration picked up on a lot of the same things that Carter truly held and not just as some cynical political shiboleths. When they welcomed the John Birch society types and the rabid anti abortion types. You can draw a direct line from the events of 9/11/2001 to the events of 1/6/2021. 9/11 created a tectonic shift in American politics American media and American priorities that all favored the right wing. Populism in the GOP began during the 50s with the Birchers. Over the objections of the northeastern party establishment populism produced Goldwater as the nominee in 1964. Goldwater lost in a landslide but his opposition to the Civil Rights Act paved the way for Southern Democrats such as Strom Thurmond to start flipping to the GOP and for George H.W. Bush to use civil rights opposition to flip Texas Democratic voters into Republicans. Thurmond was a devoted segregationist while Bush was used it cynically and who later would walk some of it back. Reagan was the first Republican presidential candidate to openly court the populists. He wasnt religious himself but he built bridges to the thennew Religious Right. The Heritage Foundation are behind Project 2025 the Religious Right morphed into todays Christian nationalists. So sure Reagan should get a lot of credit / blame for this. When the establishment right attempts to work with populists its a matter of time before things spiral out of control. Reagan kept a tight leash on them but Gingrichs destruction of bipartisanship and Pat Buchanans bizarro historical revision has converged with the seeds sown by Reagan to turn into todays Trumpworld. But if it hadnt been Trump then it would have been someone else. It isnt a coincidence that both Reagan and Trump learned how to perform in front of the camera prior to getting into politics. Most of the policy details are irrelevant. The issue is the role of populism in the party with all of the conspiracy mongering and narcissistic resentments that implies. Fuck yes they are. From an economic standpoint the billionaire class was born out of reganomics however if Regan were alive today he’d be shocked to see what’s come of it. I attribute our infestation of this particular breed of poisonous maggots to Rush Limbaugh and Newt Gingrich. They taught republicans to put aside decency and compromise in the pursuit of political power What you think MAGA just popped up out of nowhere? No those old Republicans are very much responsible. As are the right wing propagandists like Fa­ux News and Conservative Talk Radio heads like Rush Limbaugh may he burn in hell. Been watching the march to this point in time since Reagan said that govt is the problem. MAGA has its origins in the five southern states that voted for Barry Goldwater in 1964. Look up Lee Atwater. He is the evil seed that MAGA spouted from. Like Trump Reagan was the mouthpiece that the far right needed to spread their hate and mistrust. I think that its a huge mistake to believe that MAGA has anything to do with the democrats or even any specific policy agenda. The MAGA movement and the Tea Party before it was a rebellion against the establishment Republican party. People sometimes say that there is no difference between the Republican and Democrat parties. While that is ridiculous its equally true. The leadership of both parties are just bureaucrats trying to keep themselves working. They care little about the ideological beliefs of the party members and it really shows. If the democrats want to win its probably not going to happen by aping the MAGA agenda. What they really need is a revolution of their own. I would argue the roots of MAGA and Christian Nationalism stem as far back as Eisenhower. Eisenhower is why old people call everyone they dont like commies and believe the US is a Christian nation instead of a nation where you are free to be Christian. Yeah it started on Reagans watch... mostly I blame that creepy fucker Newt Gingrich his parents knew he would be a lizard. They stoked the culture war and embraced and unleashed upon the national stage the politicized evangelical movement in order to gain support for their corporate antiNew Deal era oriented aims. So yes this traces back directly to them. From abroad it seems Reagan Republicans and Obama Democrats are now all just the Normies who were pushed aside by the MAGA Fascist movement. They should join forces ditch their respective extremist wings and run on making America sane again. The MAGA parasite can be traced to a large segment of Conservativespoliticians radio and TV personalities in the 90s that went apolapocalyptic due to a Democratic being elected president. I think that the working class MAGA and the capitalist class MAGA are motivated by very different things with some crossover. The working class MAGA people often have nothing and have a justified anger at liberal institutions and the status quo this anger is then int he absence of anything close to a working class political coalition channeled into completely unrelated and often insane directions. Id say responsibility for them lies at the establishment in general. Its easy to point to psychotic talk radio lunatics radicalizing them but its not like theres ever been any political will to ban or prosecute those people american liberalism fetishises free speech too much for that. the capitalist MAGA class is just suburban middle class small business paranoia again the esablishment at large loves these people in principle democrats and liberals love talking about small business owners and entrepeneurs and are onsessed with suburbanites. Ultimately it comes down to the complete lack of any kind of alternative political vision nobody is advocating for the kind of politics that would look after everyone and be built around community and solidarity so you end up with a mass of atomized and alienated feaks and along comes a talented enough conman like trump. It was a combination of things The rise of right wing pundit media with Rush Limbaugh and Fox News. This created an echochamber that is divorced from facts and data and is designed to target base emotion rather than reason. The failure of the Bush II presidency. He got the country into an unpopular war under false pretense and then ignored all the signs of an impeding recession. Obamas presidency. A black man as president marked a watershed moment for several tyopes of people. We saw the rise of the Tea Party Movement which evolved into MAGA. Social media and podcasts completed it. Now people can consume a steady diet of opinions and non factual data 24/7 and find a community of likeminded people to become even worse. Add in bad actors like Russia interefering and you have our current siituation. Its a fair point. Trump is much more of a 2016 Bernie supporter then anything else even though people insist on political labels. Reagan laid a good bit of the groundwork for the propaganda pipeline into the American heartland. Dismantling the education system guts the help services especially mental health. adayada. Basica helped. Also he really help invite the oligarchs and ChristoFascists more into the fold of the inner USA political circus. The mouthpieces and shadow agents did all the rest. Domestic and foreign. You can trace back to things back to even the very foundation of this country make your to Nixon especially that crop fiasco to the Oklahoma City Boming and connect a whole lot of dots as to what we are seeing right now. David Brooks summed up what is happening right now really well in this speech The MAGA movement is essentially a rebrand of paleoconservatism which was spearheaded by Pat Buchanan in the 1990s. These conservatives were unhappy with Reagan’s neoconservative principles such as his neoliberal economic policies seeing market globalization as hurting America as well as his brand of conservatism as not true” including seeing the amesty for undocumented immigrants as unfair sometimes racist sometimes not foreign aid as an unfair use of taxpayer dollars sometimes with a flair of antisemitism thrown into this column because they were specifically upset with the Israeli lobby other times just believing America should have never become a dominant power in the world stage and should be isolationist without the antisemistism. Paleocons became prominent in the 90s as a pushback on Reagan’s/G.H.W. Bush’s Republican Party AND Clinton’s ThirdWay moderate Democrat Party since both were neoliberal in economic and globalistminded in other ways and relatively more open to immigration and integration with the Chinese economy although the two big groups still differed on social values but they never really caught on. People were happy with the economy generally. I would say Trump took these ideas and elevated them in 2015 along with a pushback on fake news” and SJW/Woke” ideas in order to take down the establishment neocon Republican Party since most voters at that point were pretty pissed at them for the Iraq Invasion debacle and 2008 financial crisis and this led to the idea that America’s middle class had been forgotten and left behind because of globalist tendencies and trump allowed this to make a lasting impression. It stuck winning him the primary and ultimately carried through the R party until today. This was helped by the Tea Party Movement in the late 2000s/early 2010s also fighting on Neocon Economic policies because of how W. bush had in their eyes forgotten the original intent of smaller gov. The tea party movement has essentially become part of mainstream conservatism at this point which is why it died out as a pushback to establishment. To answer your question Reaganera Reps and Obamaera Dems who pushed too hard to the left on the woke” both are responsible for MAGA as both parties at different times failed to address the concerns middle America had since in the middle 2010s both neoconservatism and Obamaera liberalism was seen as not addressing issues the middle class faced. This allowed Paleo ideas to become more prominent through Middle America and to become mainstream as a new third option” rebranded as MAGA. A lot of MAGAs hate neocons the same way they despise dems but this time around as opposed to the 90s a lot of neocon voters not necessarily neocon politicians the Cheneys and Bolton are examples that come to mind as Neocons now aligned with Dems in response to MAGA are willing to go along with MAGA because they dislike Dem policy more because it is no longer thirdway” it’s become Obamaera woke” However I will say Reagan in noway believed in open borders. He signed onto reform and amnesty because he believed it would be a onetime only policy” to fix the issues already present and needed to make a bipartisan agreement to get his own budgets and policies passed by a democrat controlled congress. The original intent was that this reform would end what he saw as failures to curb illegal/undocumented immigration up to that point and would stop what he saw as a relic of immigration issues from the later 1970s. He and his party was never happy that the reforms didn’t curb the influx of undocumented immigration at the levels it was intended too. Your last point is somewhat true as Dems probably 100% benefit from stricter immigration platform protecting domestic manufacturing and limiting foreign aid since these ideas have generally become popular at this time. Biden’s immigration policy was seen as especially ineffective. However a significant problem they will face is the woke” aspect of their social policies. A lot of people who might be able to be won by Dems on the economic/immigration front also see Dems as being out of touch socially and having gone too far left on social policy. Harris in particular struggled with this part because of her older platform from 2019 where her social policies were much further left than where many Americans were okay with. Additionally with abortion essentially out of presidential politics because it is back to the states Dems can no longer use that as a winning argument. A lot of Swingstate voters expressed happiness that they were able to vote forabortion in their own state and also vote Trump for president because the two have become separate issues. It’s Newt Gingrich who’s really to blame. Others say Limbaugh and he’s a major factor but not the originator just a wildly successful opportunist. If indeed the MAGA movement is a reaction to Reagan era policies it suggests Democrats could win back more MAGA voters by adopting a platform that is stricter on immigration protects domestic manufacturing and limits foreign aid in favor of domestic spending. Stricter on immigration We are already very strict. What do you want 2000 miles of WW1 trenches barbed wire and pillboxes on the southern border indefinitely? Protect domestic manufacturing WDYM? It’s leaving not because it has to—but because it wants to pay less than Americans need to subsist. It can stay if it wants to but its shareholders are screaming for more profit. They don’t give a damn where it comes from. Foreign aid is already negligible. Around 1% or less of total spending. So I’m not sure why you think it’s sapping domestic priorities. Foreign aid= Resources for our puppet states to crush dissent and resources for proxies in target states to create instability. The US is not a charity and never was. You also omit how war hungry the Reaganites are Failures of the George W. Bush’s presidency is the main reason there was an opening for the outsider Trump to attack the old Republican Establishment and win. George W. Bush had such a bad presidency and it literally culminated in the Great Recession. This led to Obama winning in a landslide in 2008. Obama gradually lost political capital as he governed. Republicans being out of power national allowed themselves to gain strength without any clear winning ideology. Romney failed in 2012 because Obama was still too popular. If Obama was able to run for a third term I bet Obama would have won in 2016. Instead of Obama being the democratic nominee in 2016 we had Hillary Clinton be challenged by Bernie Sanders and Hillary runs to the left of Bernie on cultural issues in order to secure the domination. Trump runs against Hillary and he barely wins but win he does. Thermostatic publican opinion is real and there was a little more wind at the back of the Republican nominee. Trump then proceeds to govern in his bombastic ineffective style. Very ineffective style but yet does two main things that help him secure his grip on the Republican Party. He nominates 3 conservative Supreme Court justices which secures the loyalty of the Evangelical base. That and Tax Cuts cuts for the rich are his two many accomplishments.” Meanwhile in this time Trump tightens his grip on the party by attacking and ostracizing any Republican who criticizes him. He does a good enough job as a figurehead and overtime he actually wears down Republican orthodoxy that doesn’t fit him. Today the cult is so strong that Republican elites are wary and scared to criticize him. Now the first major chunk in Trumps armor is definitely the Tariffs. He’s walked back the policy quite a bit because it started becoming clearer and clearer that his tariffs were not going to be popular and that they were going to wreck the economy. Now we still have some tariffs and there is still a lot of uncertainty around what happens once all his pauses end. The economy is going to be very important in how Trump is judged by even his base. Trumps first term had a great economy and if this economy tanks Trump and MAGA is going to be in the toilet. Reagan passed the law that requires hospitals to treat anyone who asks even if that person is in the usa illegaly and has no intention of paying the bill. i dont see trump or the Republicans repealing that bill. RR brought in the Greed is Good yuppie crowd &amp trashed Welfare &amp other programs for the Common Good which Americans strongly supported b4 he &amp his minions came along attacking all of it with he help of the Kochs &amp other greedy selfserving billionaires. Reagan was NOT a hero except to the multimillionaire &amp billionaire crowd. He took wealth from a robust middle class &amp passed it up to them by decimating unions allowing vulture capitalists to bankrupt &amp sell off industries &amp lay off hundreds of thousands of worker then send jobs overseas. Everything was outsourced with our managers &amp experienced ppl sent to train their overseas counterparts then they lost their jobs! Anytime you hear rich folks praising a politician you KNOW who they work for! The problem isnt a this or that them or us issue. The issue is the system inherent people are obviously calling for change of the system as a whole not any one simple policy or ideal i think thats what a lot of people miss when they see trump and all these interests who you dont think would get behind the same person. I think the Reagan era Republicans are a old ideal and the teaparty was the first to show major shifts. But democrats have seen similar and most importantly people are coalescing around these people not in the circle so to speak. Unpopular opinion here but Biden was a exception Obama and Trump were both candidates who went against the DNC and RNC respectively. I dont know if its mainly Reagan era Republicans or the progressive left either as i think its a deeper issue these Republicans are basically being primaried left and right by hard liners being moderate doesnt seem to be what the voters are desiring. In my opinion it is a mix of multiple factors from rightwing neoliberalism right wing radio antiestablishment ideas growing further from the tea party movement and the Bush administration and the War in Iraq. Trump is simply the culmination of multiple decades of rightwing progress and changes. MAGA or a form of it was bound to happen in some way and its culmination simply occurred of Trump. You can go from going back all the way to the Goldwater revolution to seeing it as direct successor of the Tea Party. Everyone has their opinion Ultimately the three legged stool of the Reagan realignment broke down. Globalization killed the fiscal conservatives the unipolar moment and the middle eastern wars killed the war hawks and all you were left with was the religious right leg. But MAGA is driven by economic/demographic/etc forces and shifts. Playing no it’s your fault” isn’t gonna get you very far And the foreign aid was in the context of the Cold War Interesting thread. I agree the real takeaway isn’t where it started but what Democrats could do now to reclaim disillusioned voters focus on economic security fair trade and clear domestic wins. People are tired of party drama. They want proof someone’s fighting for *them*... not culture war distractions or corporate interests. When we lead with what people feel in their everyday lives clean water wages housing healthcare we have a real shot at breaking the apathy or extremism cycle. Immigration became a convenient villain and while reform was needed I don’t think most people support how cruel it’s gotten. Manufacturing does need a reboot but with a strategy timeline and support. And foreign aid? If it were better explained what we get in return I think Americans would back it. The real problem is we don’t see our own needs met first. That’s a messaging failure. We need a plan *and* a messenger. The tldr is that Barry Goldwater opposed the civil Rights act and as such was the first Republican to ever sweep the deep south. So when Nixon was campaigning he got the great idea of using the southern strategy in order to recruit disenchanted Democrats who didnt like LBJ and his alignment with the civil rights movement. The strategy work Nixon got elected. So every successive Republican candidate has tapped into that reactionary movement. Reagan did it with his dog whistles in particular his attacks on the welfare queen which was heavily coded as a black woman. Bush 43 used Willie Horton in campan ads. So on and so forth. MAGA is the reactionary wing that Republicans have been pandering to for 50 years finally taking over party leadership. Any principled old school Republican has long since left the party becoming registered independents and probably voted for Biden. But plenty of establishment Republicans are keeping their head low and toeing the line. Marco Rubio for example is saying some truly heinous shit that he would have absolutely disagreed with 10 years ago. But by doing it he gets to be Secretary of State and in his hopes the successor to Trump in the White House. And really isnt that symbolic of the Republican party going back to nixon? Willing to make any compromise with reactionary racists so long as it gets you power. Rubio is a true Republican. Theyre not responsible for its origins this is who Conservatives have literally always been. He is absolutely responsible for the resurgence of it though. I blame Reagan for trickle down economics and for cultivating a culture of unbridled greed Started knocking the dominos that led to it dems giving limpwristed opposition if any and refusing to go FDR 2.0 or further hasn’t helped tbh They are a part. The truth is that Donald Trump is the culmination of American politics culture and economics post world war 2. In some of the bleakest ways Donald Trump is the peak American man and perfect American politician. Not really. The Democrats lost bluecollar union workers. They voted for Trump. IMO of course. [deleted] Post 90 Why are political opinions about climate change so disparate? Click on Politics and Climate Views above the graph in the following link This displays opinions on climate change Happening but other questions are available in the right margin. The graph shows 93 percent of Democrats believe climate change is happening but only 43 percent of Republicans age 55+. I regularly research climate change science and its clear that climate change scientists foresee an accelerating catastrophe. Heres just one example Yet the graph shows a vast difference in opinion based on political perspective. I suspect that climate change falsehoods propagated by Trump and other Republicans are a key factor explaining the difference in opinion. This thread suggests that misinformation spread by online influencers may be a key explanation. However Ive noticed that climate change developments arent regularly reported by the media even on sites such as MSNBC cable network programs. Recently the Trump administration announced the discontinuance of the NOAA disaster database. I did a search for MSNBC NOAA disaster database and received no responses. A likely reason for lack of coverage of climate change issues on mainstream media is that climate change specifics such as discontinuance of the NOAA disaster database arent a focus of Democrats. Hurricane intensification directly is a result of climate change impacts especially accelerating ocean heat content oceans absorb about 90 percent of the heat resulting from greenhouse gas emissions. Milton’s 11% increase in winds because of humancaused climate change likely made it nearly twice as destructive. Wildfires also are impacted by climate change. Discontinuing the NOAA disaster database will decrease transparency about the impact of climate change on the nation. . This is a subreddit for genuine discussion * Please keep it civil. Report rulebreaking comments for moderator review. * Dont post low effort comments like joke threads memes slogans or links without context. * Help prevent this subreddit from becoming an echo chamber. Please dont downvote comments with which you disagree. Violators will be fed to the bear. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Its literally because one side gets information on climate change and the other is told that it doesnt exist nothing can be done its exaggerated its a hoax it will hurt you pocketbook etc. Its a simple as that. If a Maga sees climate change and begins to question it theyre told that fixes cost too much green tech is weak or feminine etc. I don’t have research or data to back this up but in talking to climate change deniers over the past couple of decades I think that for many their skepticism comes from strong objections to the government regulations and societal changes that would be necessary if anthropogenic climate change is true. Since they don’t want such empowerment of government or lifestyle changes they justify their position by denying that the climate is changing that the change is bad and that the change is human caused. [removed] Rupert Murdoch bought heavily into fossil fuels back when the truth was accepted and swung his media empire behind antiscience denial. With billions available from the existing lobby it was lucrative and billionaires do not care about our future. For the Republicans just one more step on the road to fantasy land. Authoritarianism does not believe in physical reality. The received hierarchy is the only source of all truth and meaning. It is difficult to get a man to understand something when his salary depends on him not understanding it. Upton Sinclair. The parameters of that quote would limit this willful failure to energy executives and the politicians and think tankers who serve them not to mention your worker bees such as roughnecks and coal miners. However if we expand it to lifestyle and not just livelihood it will then include a whole lot of the developed world along with the sections of the developing world that have been rising fast India etc.. Nobody wants to take one for the team so its easier to pretend that theres no team and that theres nothing that needs taking. On top of that this green stuff is coded the same neighborhood as gender studies professors in Birkenstocks your smartypants niece who went to some fancy college and became some kind of scientist you always thought she was a snotty little brat but you only let that slip that one time after too many Miller Lites during Thanksgiving dinner and purple haired kids throwing paint at old paintings. Theres an underlying aesthetic aversion to the matter which IMO is a mostly overlooked dynamic that courses throughout all politics everywhere no matter what it is. 1. Its hard to see because it takes place over decade long time scales. People adjust to just the fact that 6ft of snow they got as a 5 year old doesnt exist anymore and they come up with excuses like uhh the concrete holding heat longer. 2. Lots of vested interests in pushing fossil fuels and these vested interests have a lot of money putting pockets in media think tanks and politicians. 3. Neoliberalism has an extremely strong ideological aversion to mass state action and Climate Change is something that has to at minimum involve mass state direct action if not some heavy level of economic planning. Instead Neoliberalisms solution is largely just 4. HyperPartisanship. Lots of the Political Right are just nothing more than envionmental vandals because they view Environmentalism as left wing/liberal so just go out of their way to trash and engage in environmental vandalism and antiEnvironmental action to piss off the left. One of the popular memes Conservatives would share in the 2000s I remember was Hug this hippies captioned over giant old growth forests being ripped down for Lumber. 5. Climate Change is quite literally a cosmic horror style event. Its something people just dont want to think about. Its not nice to think that your actions contribute to your grandchildren likely growing up in a hellworld. 6. Technological utopianism. CCUS will somehow become viable despite even at peak output would do really nothing to dent climate change Cold Fusion is just right around the corner. All sorts of Tech copiums. Its the think tanks that are funded by the fossil fuel industry my friend. An army of scientists that fabricate pseudoscience for a living. Heartland Institute. Koch Industries... Theres quite a few of them around the world. They have developed All of them debunked of course. But still thats a tremendous amount of misinformation that has been spread about for decades. When a voter hears just one of them without researching anything it can easily be accepted as fact. And then the voter moves on to other political stances. In my opinion this where the Democrats have really dropped the ball. Spelling it all out with clear easy to understand wording is really not that hard. Its just math. The more greenhouse gases there are in the troposphere the more heat there will be returning to the earths surface. One simple way to look at it is the fact that the denial crowd has changed their story 252 times. While the basic calculations of the greenhouse effect has remained the same for 201 years. These think tanks have a bottomless money pit. Theres still trillions of dollars of oil thats still in the ground. Oil that humankind simply cannot afford to burn. But the greed remains. They even go as far as Because there are heavy economic incentives involved in saying different things Step one was te GOPs war on education and the educated. Step two was to use freedom to speak to promote the freedom to lie. Step three was to spread the lie that all the Dems proposals to fight climate change would send bazillions of dollars to Africa and make petro powered cars illegal. There isnt the question of whether or not climate change is happening is not a political opinion. If you are asking why many people are factually incorrect about whether or not its happening and what its effects will be its because republicans realized its a good wedge issue and polarized their base. The moment you acknowledge that it is happening you feel obligated to address it. Getting rid of plastic shopping bags in favor of reusable bags seems a small issue but it was almost as of the world ended. People dont want to be inconvenienced and rather see the world goes to hell after they die. there is nothing in it for them. Motivated reasoning. Despite a scientific consensus on climate change citizens are divided on the topic particularly along political lines.[29] Liberals and progressives generally believe based on extensive evidence that human activity is the main driver of climate change. By contrast conservatives are generally much less likely to hold this belief and a subset believes that there is no human involvement and that the reported evidence is faulty or even fraudulent.[30][11][10] It seems kind of like they believe that they shouldnt be punished for their neighbor rolling coal even though they themselves roll coal. I guess they choose to believe that humans dont cause climate change because reasons and that climate change wont effect them because reasons. Paid junk by people and interests who stand to lose money. Like many things in this world. I take the opinion that I will treat climate change as if it is a real threat to society when those who proclaim the loudest that it is a real threat to society behave in a manner consistent with their beliefs that it is a real threat to society. Seeing hundreds of private jets fly into a Climate conference in Dubai of all places is just absurdity. When leadership walks the walk I will pay attention to what they are saying. Everything is insanely polarized and the other side” is consistently portrayed as genuinely evil. So when one side supports something and you’ve been told that side is evil incarnate and genuinely wants to see the destruction of the country then your natural assumption and position is oppose whatever that other side” supports. Step out of the internet and talk to people who aren’t so polarized and you’ll find republicans who agree climate change is a problem and you’ll even find democrats who don’t think it’s a problem. Conservatives have always been against science. It took 400 years for the Catholic Church to admit the Earth revolved around the Sun. Galileo the father of modern astronomy physics and science spent much of his adult life under house arrest. Many conservatives still think the Earth is 6000 years old. Any science that conflicts with their world view is simply ignored. Today acknowledging climate change also eats into the profit margins of large corporations so they have spent millions denying it over multiple decades. First to combat climate change companies will have to lose money somewhere. Most will have to spend more money to be climate friendly. Some like oil industries will have to close up shop altogether. So they have an invested interest in having people believe that climate change either does not exist or is too difficult to tackle or that the free market will resolve it or literally anything else that would stop people from voting for more environmental regulations. These companies have spent a lot of money propping up one party over the other. While the other party is more educated and science driven. But as others have said it is not just the companies. People in the GOP have a strong objections to government regulations changing or effecting their lives. They chose to believe its not real because then they dont have to be even minorly inconvenienced to buy an EV rather than a gas guzzler or use a paper straw. It’s because the wealthy have decided that we aren’t going to do anything about climate change. The right wants to enrichthe ruling class while destroying the climate. It is a question of profit. If after the covid vaxx you still trust the experts theres literally no hope for you. Back in the 1970s the experts were predicting a new ice age in 20 years. In the 1990s they predicted that global warming would cause the ice caps to melt and wed all drown by 2013. They then stopped talking about ice age and global warming and switched to the noncommittal climate change. And of course they can save us all if only we give them all our money. Lol. Republicans don’t believe in facts. Also it’s hard to convince Jesus freaks that either god won’t fix this or god didn’t do this. There shouldnt be political opinions about climate change. There should be political opinions about our use of natural resources considering all of the implications of each course of action. Scientist should do science and politicians should do politics and distancing yourself from reality should have severe and permanent consequences to the purveyor. Because the overwhelming majority of Republicans are stupid on purpose about it because they’re in a cult led by the dumbest ahole to rise to a position of power in the western world in almost 100 years &amp Democrats…are not Red states growth models the economic engines that they tickle to do better for themselves largely depend on carbon energy. From dakotas on down to Texas across the panhandle of OK and up to WV the carbon coalition term coined by economist Mark Blyth as far as I know. Because environmentalists have been predicting wrong for years https//freebeacon.com/politics/top10catastrophicclimatepredictionsthatfailed/ People are against giving up all their stuff to some political group in order to prevent a hypothetical end of the world which was supposed to happen hundreds of times already. Just because climate change is happening doesnt mean the planet cant handle it on its own. The planet has been through ice ages and meteor strikes and massive volcano eruptionsthat wiped out a lot of speciesbut the planet recovered naturally on its own. Theres probably some rare algae out there in the ocean that can massproliferate every 10000 years or so when CO2 gets concentrated enough in the ocean and ocean surface gets warm enough. To quote Malcolm Life uh finds a way Probably because we’ve heard climate alarmists for the last 60 years telling us that the world will end in the next ten years…… shocker they’re always wrong. Now that’s not to say we shouldn’t aspire to be more environmentally conscious we should. But the world isn’t ending anytime soon. And also if it is I find the most ironic thing about environmentalists is that you’re not trying to save the world you’re trying to save humanity. Trust me when all humans die off the world will be fine better than probably. Okay a couple of things. No 1. There are various models used to predict the changes in climate at different times into the future. Consequently the estimated cost of these changes in climate depend on what point into the future one is looking at. The changes range from very costly to a net positive. No 2 If one actually reads the reports from the UN the best to worst outcomes are assigned a probability. The worst case scenario had a very low probability. Iirc it was less than 5 percent chance of happening. No 3 The worlds poor are going to want improvements in their standard of living. This is going to require vast amounts of energy. More energy than you can imagine. Where are you going to get that energy? Climate change fear mongers cannot answer that question. No 4 Some climate scientists are saying weve already crossed the threshold and theres no going back so we should concentrate on resiliency. No 5 Climate change has been framed as a backdoor pathway for implementing collectivism where the elites do not have to make the same sacrifices as everyone else. Hypocrisy on a global scale. I think a lot of people polled on this or are just confused about the level of warming our impact control the fact weve only been documenting temps so many generations etc..are automatically labeled climate deniers. And in this day and age that also makes you a nazi. A lot of good hearted people want to help the planet. A lot of bad hearted people want to take advantage of that. Its easy to say climate change contributed to changes in weather patterns over the course of decades but that is hard to conceptualize Its disingenuous or outright unprovable to say climate change caused a single specific event but that is what some advocates like to do and thats what makes headlines I’ve lived in NE most of my life and have been through cold winters warm winters drought summers and wet flood summers. We just went through a cold rainy April. Yet I remember some Aprils where the Boston marathon was run in 90+ degrees. Without reading historical data I really don’t notice that much difference. The one thing I have seen is coastal erosion of beaches on Cape Cod. Is that evidence of climate change? I think a reason climate change has become much more nonsensical in the last 2 years is that the movement suffered a brain drain as many leaders in the movement shifted their priority to Gaza. We can clearly see that in the multi year effort behind the freedom flotilla plan that literly blew up in everyone’s faces Politics has nothing to do with reality. It’s all theater and good theater requires conflict. So here is my personal belief. As long as Ive been alive weve been jumping from world ending crisis to world ending crisis. Pollution micro plastics clubbing baby seals bees dying DDT ozone layer nuclear waste leaded gasoline acid rain genetically modified food spotted owls old growth forests sea levels rising soil erosion rainforest deforestation rhinoceros going extinct nuclear winter pesticides herbicides coral reefs fracking etc... The issues seem to come fairly regularly. People on the left get really really upset about them for a little while propose some quasisocialist solution for the problem and then they move on to the next thing. As a conservative history has taught me that theres no reason for me to think that you guys are going to break the pattern. Youre going to be very very worried about global warming until you get bored with it when something else hits the headlines. Ocean acidification maybe? Meteor strikes? Again this is just my opinion. It seems like you have specific policies that you want to enact and you then go searching for issues that give you an excuse to implement them. Climate change alarmism is a ploy to smother the industries of developing countries in the crib so they never become selfsufficient. Whether climate change is real or not its obvious that the scientific community relationship with it is that they are under immense social and political pressure to push it or else be ostracized. The usage of climate change has also become cynical is that its obvious some far leftists use it in watermelon way of red on the inside green on the outside in other words if you say a policy is for helping the environment you may pass things that otherwise may be unpopular. For example the Green New Deal would basically require eliminating the capitalist economy and replacing it entirely with government spending one. There are far leftists who know this and thats why they support it. Post 91 What are the strategic steps a marginalized ethnic group can take to peacefully gain independence and build a new state in modern West Africa? I live in a West African country one of the most failed states in the world. It has a huge territory but very low population and includes at least three major ethnic groups. We suffer from a deep identity crisis as a nation. I belong to one of these ethnic groups—a group that has been systematically neglected by the government since the countrys independence. Most of our people are uneducated and to be honest the situation of the other ethnic groups isn’t much better. I believe that dividing this country into several smaller states might be a better longterm solution for everyone. Of course I cannot say this openly or I’d be arrested. The real challenge is that our ethnic group is geographically mixed with others although some towns and regions are mostly ours. Our dream is to establish a peaceful independent state for our people away from this failed system. My question is What are some practical strategic and peaceful steps that we as a marginalized group can follow to gradually work toward selfdetermination and possibly independence? . This is a subreddit for genuine discussion * Please keep it civil. Report rulebreaking comments for moderator review. * Dont post low effort comments like joke threads memes slogans or links without context. * Help prevent this subreddit from becoming an echo chamber. Please dont downvote comments with which you disagree. Violators will be fed to the bear. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* I’m going to be very blunt here you can’t build a successful state based on shared ethnic identity when 1 your infrastructure and human capital” education and skills are too poorly developed to carry out state services on your own or 2 there are people of numerous different ethnic groups living in the same location which is the case for almost every country. The first criteria is why most separatist states fail in the first place as the oppression that motivates a rebellion in the first place tends to severely restrict the resources to build a successful state without outside help. Maybe you’ll be able to get outside help but unless you’re willing to shell out benefits to the US Europe or Russia you’re unlikely to get enough to turn the tide in your favor. And other rebels might disappear you for selling out your new country. The second criteria should be obvious to anyone who’s read about the partition of India the entire history of Israel wars in other parts of Africa or anywhere else with prolonged ethnic conflict ethnostates tend to devolve into selfdevouring bigotry and ethnic cleansing that leaves nobody better off in the long run and focusing so much energy on internal power struggles takes resources away from real economic development. TLDR Gambling to become Somaliland usually results in becoming South Sudan. You need to get your community educated and to get a way to make money on the international stage to survive as a new small country. Education. Set up local schools and hire competent teachers. Youll need learned professionals to run your country or youll end up right back where you currently are. My question is What are some practical strategic and peaceful steps that we as a marginalized group can follow to gradually work toward selfdetermination and possibly independence? Get the French on your side. I served in a number of West African countries and quite frankly I don’t think most of them are able to survive as is let alone split up. If they do split they’ll need insane amounts of foreign investment to become steady and stable Try to build a diaspora of your ethnicity specifically in rich countries that still identifies with the oppression at home. Define cultural events that can serve to network and link that diaspora to the home country. Get them to lobby for economic aide and sympathetic media coverage. Build media projects that can serve as cultural touchstones and can be appreciated by foreign audiences while strengthening internal solidarity. This has been the strategy that has had moderate success for some communities to be controversial Israel Ireland and Armenia might be examples. In general if you go back to the 19th century you have lots of activists trying to forge nation states out of previously cosmopolitan empires and ethnically mixed land in Europe. A key tool they did was identifying and defining culturally specific traits and stories things that had never really been codified. National dances songs recipes folk tales. In some cases they just invented national origin stories and myths to create unifying symbols. Look at the creation of North Macedonia for example. But promoting ethnic nationalism in an integrated economic and social system has historically had very bad outcomes they may have gotten their independent ethnostate in the end but they went through extreme violence and human rights violations to get there and of course some of the groups that tried this didnt succeed but you dont hear about them often. It is unlikely to help development. Long game wins tend to come automatically from a strategy that emphasizes purchasing transactions within your group and sales transactions to all. Post 92 Is the lack of concern from a threat to democracy because of a lack of a clear communication from the left or because of a great concealing of it from the Trump administration? I have seen many people claim that there is a threat to democracy but I have also never seen anyone actually define what that threat was often just saying trumpism Trump facism or Elon. At the same time many people fail to accept that a threat is there. Is this lack of understanding because the left lacks a clear and coherent communication of the threat or because the Trump administration does a great job concealing it? . This is a subreddit for genuine discussion * Please keep it civil. Report rulebreaking comments for moderator review. * Dont post low effort comments like joke threads memes slogans or links without context. * Help prevent this subreddit from becoming an echo chamber. Please dont downvote comments with which you disagree. Violators will be fed to the bear. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Your news services are captured your corporations are people money is speech and your legislation is being rewritten behind closed doors. The threat is obvious. There is a massive right wing propaganda machine that has been refined in the decades since the fairness doctrine was dismantled. That machine works in perpetuity to aid and abet fascism and class warfare. It’s a well oiled machine and it distorts everything. Open your eyes and see reality for what it is. The Republican party and mag is especially dont want to selfreflect and take accountability on this unchecked tyrannical toddler that they helped create and unleash. All you have to do is ask yourself how would the Republican Party be reacting right now if Trump had lost and Biden had stayed in and Biden was now doing this shit and saying the shit that hes saying. Concealing??? I dont know exactly what you mean. It’s absolutely out in the open. Since people have never seen an authoritarian takeover before they cant recognise it. It’s like the toad in the boiling water. I honestly no longer care. Why should I have a heart attack worrying about him ruling the country when everyone just keeps voting him back in. Whatever happens happensand Americans deserve it. Perhaps once the Writ of Habeas Corpus is eliminated and US citizens are rounded up and deported and jailed then the threat to Democracy will be real to most people. Of course by then it will be too late. A large enough chunk of the population is so misinformed not uninformed which would be better that they actually believe the opposite of reality. So the left is providing a clear message that this is happening. The right is providing vastly more misinformation to a captured audience who believes that there is nothing wrong. My father literally thought day one that Trump was going to fix Bidens mess until that day passed and he suddenly started saying that it was going to take Trump a while to fix it. Now his retirement investments are in the crapper his medicine is way more expensive and so is everything else. Which is bidens faults due to previous bad trade deals like the one with Canada and Mexico... you know the one Trump signed. Its more like deafness. The public called for increasing the minimum wage free health care prison reform equal gender rights limitations on free trade housing reform major infrastructure improvements ending the wars and debt forgiveness gun safety reform. Since Obama took office the only thing out of that we have gotten is ending the wars and weak attempts at everything else from Dems. Its simply that they have failed. We send them to do 1 thing and be it due to weakness of character confusion distraction or being manipulated socially they dont put in the effort. Again the greatest threat is not knowing what you are talking about spouting terms which are not actually related. Democracy is the vote of the people to rule. The US is not technically a democracy but votes for representatives. And Trump and the other representatives were voted by the people. Trump did not hide what he wanted to do. What you are saying is a threat to personal liberties? Or unlawful behavior flouting court rulings? So the problem is multilayered. To start with many of the people stating theres a problem dont actually believe theres a problem and that makes it hard to communicate about the problem. This applies more to political figures and public intellectuals than it does to everyday people but we see the same people telling us that fascism is here hurrying to vote in favor of everything this fascist government wants to do and being completely unable/unwilling to push back in any meaningful way. If this is a threat theyre not capable of acting like it is. That sends *very* mixed messages to people as well as undermining peoples faith that theres anything they can actually do. Additionally a lot of people just dont *care.* People are disillusioned with the US system to the degree that something threatening it doesnt really bother them on a deep level. They dont believe we have a democracy or a democracy worth protecting because they feel alienated and disenfranchised. Its a sort of let it burn mentality because for a lot of people things suck pretty bad and while I think most people accept that burning things down wont make them better theyre of a view that it cant really make them much worse. Fascism is also very good at concealing itself within a society as it develops. Its syncretic in that it adapts itself to whatever societal context is present and every society has blind spots. The reality is most people dont think Trump represents a threat to democracy at all. In fact Trump is the epitome of democracy despite breaking all the rules of standard politics hes in power *because* the people chose him. I think most people also instinctively felt that pre Trump we were being offered candidates preapproved by a corporate elite instructed to manage the people rather than fully represent them. Thats not really democracy so if anything the *threat* was coming from the establishment. Trump is the peoples choice and his foibles and flaws only serve to reinforce that fact. Because the left’s definition of a threat to democracy is whenever there is an outcome of any democratic process of which they don’t approve. The left doesnt lack communication it lacks any alternative to Trumpian majoritarianism. Democrats as a party are run by incompetent brown nosers who cant accomplish anything except fundraisers and racking up senior discounts. Their favorables keep falling in every poll! While Trump destroys the economy and drags people off to camps in Latin America they still cant even show up as a viable alternative! No amount of communication of how bad the other guy is will help you if people wouldnt lift a finger to save your life! I think the question is fundamentally flawed i dont think there is a threat to democracy because there is no democracy to be threatened. I think the country might become even less tolerant of dissent or more violent more prone to meeting protests with violence but that seems to be a bipartisan effort. There is no democracy its a shadow oligarchy. Democracy is not merely a ritual or process that people participate in. Democracy needs results which the people in America have not seen. The parties change but only the interests of a small few are served. Well in this case the left is largely ignored. We care about actually making our institutions more democratic from our government to our workplaces. What you are describing are the calls from the centerright Democratic party about danger to democracy from the far right. They lift up this talking point a lot but they are also deeply unserious. Most Democratic politicians voice no concern for deeply undemocratic institutions like the Senate and Supreme Court the electoral college or the limited size of the House. Or even just first past the post electoral structures. Only the most progressive even bring up gerrymandering. Their only narrow concerns are with the ability to vote in the abstract who cares if anyone you want to vote for can make it to the ballot vote blue or red pleb and a first amendment right for those they dont personally want to accuse of being foreign agents for criticizing them. Its sadly anemic in the face of Republicans who yes are worse! But only in that Republicans are a few degrees more extreme in their antidemocracy than the tepid baseline of antidemocratic tendencies common to both parties. Post 93 Is the shift right in the Republican Party a result of the movement of the party to the right or the movement of the democrats to the left? It is widely accepted that the Republican Party has moved to the right to some the farright in recent years However is this in your opinion a shift in perspective as some argue the democrats move further left or a genuine move right from the republicans? . This is a subreddit for genuine discussion * Please keep it civil. Report rulebreaking comments for moderator review. * Dont post low effort comments like joke threads memes slogans or links without context. * Help prevent this subreddit from becoming an echo chamber. Please dont downvote comments with which you disagree. Violators will be fed to the bear. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Its hard to make the case that the Democratic Party of 2024 is significantly different than the Democratic Party of 2008 The same is very much not true of the Republican Party. One could go line by line down their platform and see the influence of Trumpism This narrative is honestly exhausting. Democrats courted Liz Cheney last election for Gods sake. They are not moving left they are moving rightward alongside the Republican party. The reason they are perceived as moving left is because the Republicans are able to dominate the cultural zeitgeist by being right wing populists. Democrats are allowing Republicans to control the narrative and are rejecting the left wing populism that would win them elections. The Republican Party had long been pro free markets pro due process pro States rights anti taxes anti spending and hawks on foreign policy that treated nondemocracies comparatively. Trumps executive orders regarding prescriptions drugs and tariffs are not pro Free Market. Arresting and deporting people without hearings isnt pro due process. Trump is not calling for taxes to be raised on the wealthy. That isnt antitax. Trump has threatened to remove federal funds from States with Governors that refuse to enact policies Trump wants. Totally not pro States rights. Trump is accepting gifts from Qatar and treats Putin as a friend. Weak foreign policy towards Totalitarian and authoritarian States. The Republican party as a collaborative political body doesnt appear to stand for much anymore. The Party is no longer of any sort of traditional Left vs Right scale. It is Trumps party and they do as he chooses. Trump didnt read Any Rand doesnt care about Milton Friedman couldnt careless what Grover Norquist thinks and thinks U.S. soldiers are suckers &amp losers. The shift the OP describes is actually a total capitulation. As a party Republicans serve the desires of one man. The Republican Party has shifted right. More specifically the paleoconservative and neofascist elements that have been present in the Republican Party for many decades have displaced neoconservatives as the dominant faction in the party. The Overton Window has also shifted to the right and the Democratic Party has followed suit in an effort to remain relevant. Are you kidding me? Republicans gleefully elected a disordered sociopath who attempted a coup in our country. They openly embrace dictators and fascist principles and dont give a shit that the clown they elected is literally defying the constitution and the supreme court. What have Democrats done to move further left? Added their pronouns to their email signatures? Mentioned the possibility of starting a discussion about maybe someday starting to talk about healthcare for all? When I see questions like this I have to wonder if theyre in good faith. There is no reasonable argument that the democrats have moved anywhere other than right wards. The dems haven’t rly moved left they’ve given in fully to the republicans on immigration and don’t even talk about immigrants as a benefit to the country anymore and they never fight for any public healthcare or literally anything remotely left wing besides I guess occasionally Half heartedly fighting for a minimum wage increase? So we can safely right that off as a reason. On the other side it seems from the top down there has been a concerted effort to make republican citizens as far right and as hateful towards all the out groups as possible and it seems to have succeeded pretty well as much as I like to blame the elites the citizens are all hateful as hell now when it comes to anyone they think is bad politically which is anyone who stands in the way of their power even a smidge. So yeah. It’s been topdown mainly the upper parts elites and donors decided it would be easier if they could just use the state to arrest dissent etc. You really need to understand that the Far Left in America is barely Center Left in the rest of the world. And its been that way for decades. It hasnt moved much. Meanwhile you can watch the shift on the right with each succeeding republican president starting all the way back with Nixon. I do not buy the argument that Democrats have moved left at all. Socially Democrats pay lip service to left leaning cultural positions but nothing materially to protect those groups. From an economic perspective theyve moved ever further to the right over the past 40 years. I think the shift in the republican party to the right Is due to a shift in the general populations recognition that the economy is no longer working for the vast majority of people. However a portion of this population has been captured by culture war propaganda and believe that it is these left leaning social causes that are the reason for the economic reality rather than the actual source policies that have funneled money to the most wealthy individuals over the past 40 years to the detriment of the working class. The left recognizes this reality and thats why the Democrats want to blame and push down that political block because it is a threat to the economic order. Republicans pandered to those with right leaning social views because their proposed solutions wont threaten the current economic order and will keep them constantly at odds with the rest of the general population. In essence both major political parties have shifted to the right over time on economic issues and that has led to the Republicans moving further right and the Dems desperately try to hold a centrist right position that has become wholly unpopular among the general population. Democrats only end up winning when the fear of Republican rule becomes too great but that fear cant last forever and Republicans have a large pool of scapegoats they can pull from indefinitely. The Democrat party today is to the right of George W. Bushs Republican administration and this is a result of vote blue no matter who. The Republicans naturally have to act more erratic to create the illusion of choice in a system that only enriches the top 1%. The Democrats have followed the GOP to the right abandoning progressives in the process. It began in the Clinton years as they chased and embraced wobbly Republicans under the false premise that by including them in the Democratic Party would make them more liberal. Instead it just made the Democratic Party increasingly conservative beginning the long fall into disarray. Those wobbly Republicans were more akin to trojan horses than converts. Per Pew about half of GOP voters are Christian nationalists or rightwing populists. They drive the party. Combine this with the general truism that the ends of the political spectrum are more engaged and politically active than the center and that results in this group holding a disproportionate amount of influence in the party. Prior to the LBJ party realignment the Jim Crow segregationists were Democrats while the conspiracy mongers were Republican. They are stronger now that they are united in the Republican coalition. **The Democratic coalition is more ideologically mixed than the Republican coalition.** Among voters who associate with the Democrats about half say they are very liberal 16% or **liberal 31% while nearly as many say they are moderate 45%. Around 6% say they are conservative.** In spite of these numbers the Democratic brand is widely perceived as being progressive much to the detriment of the party. From The Atlantic The ongoing influence of the progressive groups can be seen in a new New York Times poll. **Asked to list their top priorities respondents cited in order the economy health care immigration taxes and crime**. ***Asked what they believed Democrats’ priorities were they cited abortion LGBTQ policy climate change the state of democracy and health care.*** That perception of the party’s priorities may not be an accurate description of the views of its elected officials. But it is absolutely an accurate description of the priorities of progressive activist groups. Over the last decade the Dems have moved away from messaging with their religious voters in mind to going fulltilt secular. By betting everything on Dobbs the Dems paid for this in 2024. Many of the antichoice voters who voted for Biden bailed out while Trump held on to his share of prochoice voters. Democrats are so insane they are looking for an excuse to move farther to the Left. The Republican Party has actually moderated a bit in terms of policy and although the authoritarian rise is a shift that’s not Leftwing or Rightwing. The 1996 Dem Platform is essentially almost identical to the current Rep ideology. Movements towards isolationism and nationalism isn’t a Left or Right policy change that’s on a different spectrum which used to be across party lines. People forget that when free trade was popular under H.W. And Clinton opposition was from Rightwing paleoconservatives AND leftwing union proponents. Today that’s considered rightward but I’m not sure that’s an accurate description of what’s really happened in the Rep Party. Dems certainly moved left since the Clinton Era and while in the Obama era this was popular a lot of independents aren’t really on board with this. Even in 2012 the independents voted for Romney but he still lost because of how big the Dem coalition was. Note in 2024 the reverse was true. Dem policy under Clinton was for workfare over welfare freemarket solutions and smaller government spending. The Dem party today has certainly moved left on those positions. The Rep party has gotten ban all abortion” and no gay marriage” off the national platform. They’ve appealed to unions much more. That’s moderation from where they used to be. That’s moving more Left on social policy. Economic protectionism” was also not a liberal/conservative split it was a spilt among global market proponents across both parties and isolationist proponents across both parties. It’s a rise of paleoconservative ideals over neoconservative ideals that’s occurred under Trump not a moderate conservative line. I think that’s two brands of conservative thinking infighting and a rise of populism on both sides of the left/right spectrum. It’s all very hard to follow and IMO can’t be mapped onto a single right/left axis. On domestic social issues ie the culture war the left is moving left and the right is moving right. On economic issues the democrats are in many ways more akin to libertarian free trade a more traditionally conservative economic approach while the republicans are trying to engineer markets albeit with tariffs rather than regulations. On foreign policy Trump has also been slightly less of a warhawk than previous republican presidents pulling out of Afghanistan and opposing the RussiaUkraine war quite possibly for nefarious reasons which is a change from the previous two party warhawk hegemony dating back to gulf war times. It’s a complicated time in US politics and there are realignments on a number of political issues The pushed narrative has long been that there are only two mutually exclusive ideologies and that everyone is expected to fall in line with one of them. Every issue is viewed as being binary. Anyone with much of a skew either way is told that they must push away from the other side. This lie has become widely accepted as fact across society and therefore it is considered the normal view of reality. On the individual level it can happen fast or slow but eventually over time most people slide more right or left. This happens not because they move toward a direction but because they move away from the other. For most people this happens completely without them realizing it. Speaking only for myself the number one factor was the 1619 project simultaneously with the decline in public school education. I blame the Democrats for this. The USA has fallen behind other countries and to my knowledge the only country that teaches its children that their country is terrible. Others have said that the American left is only left of center compared with the left in other countries. This is false. The left in other countries don’t teach their children to hate their country. All of this is done to the exclusion of teaching children the basics to prepare them for higher education if that’s the course they want to take. Teach them the basics and they can learn everything else for themselves. Post 94 Elise Stefanik worked to cover up Russian bounties on American soldier heads we now know the program was real. Should we change our policies regarding transparency in safety concerns for the military? How would democrats or maga handle this differently? Elise Stefanik worked to cover up Russian bounties on American soldier heads we now know the program was real. Should we change our policies regarding transparency in safety concerns for the military? How would democrats or maga handle this differently? Even the Kremlin is laughing at us . This is a subreddit for genuine discussion * Please keep it civil. Report rulebreaking comments for moderator review. * Dont post low effort comments like joke threads memes slogans or links without context. * Help prevent this subreddit from becoming an echo chamber. Please dont downvote comments with which you disagree. Violators will be fed to the bear. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* [deleted] The article you linked to makes no reference to Stefanik. Maybe provide some more context? If true she needs to be locked up indicted and put in prison for treason if found guilty Policies and laws mean little or nothing if the people in the administration arent willing to follow them. That is clearly the case here. In any normal time we wouldnt even think of electing a convicted felon to the Presidency. The numerous frauds would have also eliminated Trump as would the sexual assaults. These are not normal times obviously. Its kind of meaningless to talk of policies as if they mattered at all. Since Elise Stefanik is on a Kremlin crypto payroll why would anyone expect something else? The GOP’s loyaltyfirst stance risks troop safety while Democrats seek systemic guardrails. Only depoliticized oversight can prevent future failures. That bitch is a traitor and why is she still walking around? Freeze a bird please explain that to me. This is the stuff that America should worry about now. These fascist betraying America. This isn’t cool [removed] . This is a subreddit for genuine discussion * Please keep it civil. Report rulebreaking comments for moderator review. * Dont post low effort comments like joke threads memes slogans or links without context. * Help prevent this subreddit from becoming an echo chamber. Please dont downvote comments with which you disagree. Violators will be fed to the bear. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* What american soldiers are doing in Russia? Do not send your people to war if you dont want them to get killed. I remember this from a few years ago. Trump forgives this shit shrugs brushes it off forgets about it. The cost of being Putin’s bitch. America what have you done? I think articles like this linked to USRussiaUkraine peace deal with the purpose of sabotage. The conspiracy has been debunked. Moderate confidence in CIA lexicon means rumour and gossip with no concrete evidence. Biden top general cannot confirm the allegations https//www.nbcnews.com/politics/nationalsecurity/rememberthoserussianbountiesdeadustroopsbidenadminn1264215 [removed] Personally I dont care about bounties on US soldiers. Theyre at war of course geopolitical rivals are gonna exploit that. If you dont want soldiers in harms way then lets stop the endless wars and interventions that only cause more destruction and instability in the first place. Post 95 Will America be able to recover its lost federal jobs? Trump/DOGE is making massive cuts to the federal workforce including at the NIH and NSF. If Democrats take control again in four years will they be able to restore those positions? Will anyone want these jobs knowing that the job will likely only last 4 to 8 years? . This is a subreddit for genuine discussion * Please keep it civil. Report rulebreaking comments for moderator review. * Dont post low effort comments like joke threads memes slogans or links without context. * Help prevent this subreddit from becoming an echo chamber. Please dont downvote comments with which you disagree. Violators will be fed to the bear. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Not completely. Trump did this to farmers during his first term. Soy agriculture has never returned to what it used to be due to how our relationship changed with China. During his first term everyone had to subsidize the ag industry because of trump. This time around he has implemented a sales tax through tariffs to subsidize whatever permanent damage he does this time around. Whats really lost is institutional knowledge. Older workers before retiring are supposed to train in coming workers over the course of years. They just wont be there in 4 years and so that knowledge is lost. Trump will have set us back a generation as fresh workers will have to rediscover solutions for old problems that were previously solved decades ago. I think what will happen is we will pay even more for contractors and consultants because what idiot would want to work for lower pay and no job stability? I live in SE Utah and Trumps fed employee cuts through the NPS BLM and USFW have hit VERY hard locally. It’ll take a long time to recover from them if we are ever able to. People were attracted to federal jobs because they are typically stable with good benefits despite the lower pay. That is gone now. They wont come back if their carrier is at risk with each new president. No. Ive worked in government and private industry and one thing they have in common is its very hard to add headcount. Theres a reason that government jobs were considered some of the most stable jobs for decades they are just there. They almost never go away and when they do the government has a massive mechanism to redeploy skilled workers. This causes the probationary period among other ways to trigger it like getting a promotion that DOGE misunderstood to mean new person. Thats besides the fact that government jobs almost always pay less than private. The skilled people that were cut were snapped up by private industry who will pay them quadruple what they were making. Ive hired some of them in the past when theyve let go for one reason or another. But the worst part is the loss of knowledge for the betterment of all. The UIUCbased group that provided soybean farmers across the US knowledge on the best ways to improve crops is gone one of the first casualities of the USAID cuts. This will impact thousands of farmers and companies at just the first stage of farming the production. That will have a knock on impact to our exports and everything else. All of these cuts have huge indirect impacts that will take decades to fix if even possible. I cant see that it would. If were in a position where anyone can just wave their arm and thousands of jobs disappear overnight whats going to compel people to want to take those jobs? Benefits and steady work was the draw for federal jobs for a long time but if your job security only lasts until the next election why would you take the job? Much of the damage he’s done and continues to do will most likely not be fully reversed. Ever. Probably yes but it will become something of an inverse of what we had before. Whereas government got to give lower wages for a higher stability now theyll need to pay out the nose. Which works as long as Americans can keep printing dollars. Once the dollar goes under then things will be much harder in regards to hiring experts. I dont see the level of competence or dedication coming back to our govt anytime soon unless we actually manage to fully purge MAGA and their idiot cohorts and pass a whole new set of anti corruption laws that will stop any sort of government capture like that form happening again. We would need some level of conscious rebuilding of our government. A new Govt jobs program all sorts of things like we got with the new deal. Wed also need a leader who could carry that and save maybe AOC I dont think any of the other corporatist Dems have the will to do anything like that. America is still recovering from Trumps first term…Biden’s progress is already being wiped out. We are in free fall now. Yes. The federal government hires according to but some skills are permanently lost unless the people that were fired are brought back as contractors at a higher price. Not entirely. At least in IT folks have lost confidence in federal jobs. Many already dont like the uncertainty of contract work. The infosec talent lost to this is going to be a lasting loss. I dont think this america sees it as a loss..though ironically their jobs are next...this admin doesmt think anyone in middle class deserves any kind of workplace benefits and is acting swiftly to put the peons in their place. When we are all fighting for our weekly stipend of grool maybe then they will question things. Will we be able to recover? Lost jobs. Lost health. Lost ecosystems. Lost data. Lost money. Lost respect. Lost power. Lost lives. It really depends on the upcoming budget negotiations. Republicans are trying to make the cuts set in stone via legislation which will definitely last longer than executive orders. Its also unclear to me what leverage Democrats have to influence the upcoming budget. They already folded once this year and was Schumers reasoning. His reasoning basically centers around that a shutdown allows the president full rein on determining which agencies are essential and therefore remain open so Trump can pick and choose which agencies to shutter during a shutdown. Currently hes prevented from cutting too many due to courts and therefore a shutdown will give him carteblanche to implement his full agenda. As far as I know the situation hasnt changed yet so if senior Democratic leaders still hold this opinion well see more cooperation with the Republicans to avoid any shutdown and thus a greater likelihood that the job cuts are here to stay for a longer time. Another thing to think about Democratic leadership might believe right now is beneficial to solidify cuts to federal agencies. There are several reasons for this. First if they force Trump to hire back the cut employees Trump will hire back MAGA sympathizers making the government more dysfunctional. Second if Trump cuts the federal budget and everything begins to suck they get to say I told you so and get more political capital for the next election. Third if Trump make the cuts now and Democrats reinstate the jobs when they get a trifecta then they get to choose who to hire and where the budget goes. So the party may actually be incentivized to make the job cuts permanent until they fully take the reins possibly several years to a decade in the future. Though this is just my conjecture and shouldnt be taken as fact. Trump’s cuts are illegal because only Congress has the power to make these kinds of drastic changes to agency budgets including zeroing them out. BUT all of the GOP congress is complicit with Trumpism through loyalty and cowardice. They will try to make Trump and Musk’s cuts legitimate retroactively through budget cuts. Dems will feel that they have to make concessions to get any budget through and to save further deathly cuts like Medicare Medicaid SNAP etc… so Dems will see already dead” agencies as easy trades Which is all to say we have to keep the pressure on Dem and GOP members of Congress. As scared of Trump GOP Congress is they’re ultimately more scared of their constituents If the regulations are kept on the books and agencies in the budget then a future Dem Executive branch could undergo massive emergency hiring. We’d have to lay on the pressure for that to happen too but it’s conceivable. If the cut agencies are taken off the books then they’re dead dead for the foreseeable future as we’d need massive energetic and ambitious legislation pushed through Congress to make hiring happen again All that said even in the very unlikely best case scenario where we get a resurrected FDR to power through this rebuilding we have already lost so much institutional knowledge momentum and morale. We’re #%&lt+ed for the foreseeable future On a plus if we ever get back in office we have Joe excuse not to do whatever the fuck we want to. All rules have been off. Fuck em. Hire twice as many people It is going to be decades rebuilding. I hope they all get primaried and those who don’t realize how they need to protect votes rebuild our trust and actually work with the other party. Thats tough to answer. In the short run? Its a possibility. In a long run? It would take methodical actions to do so. Unlikely. When they passed the luxury tax that killed the yacht refinishing business in Fl. All the finish carpenters fiberglass and welders got other jobs. by the time they repealed the tax those skilled workers had moved on and nobody teaches these craftsmans skills today. I was heavily involved with recruiting and hiring at an agency that pays pretty good. 7 years ago it was getting harder and harder to find potential employees. I would guess it will be much harder going forward. Word of mouth from current employees always helped. Now after getting the run around that will be gone too. Possibly but it will have to coincide with a reckoning of everything Trump is doing. I do not think everything is coming back because there were offices that were redundant but I think others will come back when the negative impacts of their loss are felt by people. As to the original question. Those job were created by democrats in the Obama admin. They Never created real jobs just made more government jobs. So 5 people do the same work the took 1 or 2 before. Political stunts. Wake up If the people in power decide to hire more employees the jobs will be recovered. However the lost experience and institutional knowlege can never be replaced. Any employees that accept offers from other countries to do research there will be gone for the rest of their careers. The jobs will come back eventually. And Democratic administrations will create stronger barriers for a Republican administration to make the cuts they are making now. Plus we do not know if the current cuts will stay cut there are cases still working through the court system… Depends on how you look at what *recover* means. During the eight years of the Obama administration the federal workforce was reduced from a high of 3.2 million federal workers to 2.8 million which was almost 15% of the federal workforce at the time. Though under the Trump administrations first term the federal workforce *actually increased* by 200000 and the Biden administration added another 200000 for around 3.2 million. With the current layoffs from 3.2 million the federal workforce currently stands at a little over 3 million which is **still around the same amount** as when the Trump administrations first term ended though is a 6.5% decrease from when the Biden administrations term ended. Ironically that 3 million workforce is roughly the same size as when President Truman came into office in 1945. Of course there was a world war going on and after it ended the federal workforce was greatly reduced to around 1.9 million. Though the biggest decrease 500000 of the federal workforce during peacetime was in the 1990s by the Clinton administration. It can be probably argued that this is because the Cold War ended though it might have also been more of the advent of technology allowed workers to be able to do more. Overall the federal workforce has steadily increased the past eighty years so yeah we will probably be fine. This is part of what the trade deals are all about. The UK has a farm / meat / foodstuffs section. If there’s an India deal there will be a significant foodstuffs component. No those jobs are about to be filled with yes men and contractors. If we ever get another election and a Democrat is elected when he tries to fix the damage with his executive orders the GOP stacked court will say that is illegal. Is pretty bad. It will be a massive task to rebuild American government with the Corporate influence on politics and Citizens United. It would take a change of political viewpoints to the extent that Democrats would carry all the swing states and even some Red states. They would need the Presidency and both Houses of Congress until the Supreme Court was freed from Conservative control. Even then the Corporate Democrats and Progressive could disagree enough to muck up the process to slow the rebuild of the government. Lets hope not. The FED is so bloated it is close to imploding on itself. Any organization like that must downsize or die and our FED was truly near death prior to the current admins efforts to revive it. Don’t need too more than half of those positions are redundant. Trust me I worked for the government. If anything it’ll make things way faster to get done. Sadly yes the dems will likely be able to rehire and recreate the bloat and waste that was USAID. I do hope they will hire more park rangers though. that reduction in staff I disagreed with I have my doubts they would want them back. By then the jobs may have been given to DEI White South African Immigrants. It just seems sus to me Elon orange melon head South Africa... Kinda fast tracking? Many things should be cut https//freebeacon.com/energy/trumpdoedogecancels45millionbidencontractfornewgreenenergyfriendlylogo/ The Department of Energy canceled a $4.5 million contract the Biden administration awarded to develop a new agency website and logo symbolically highlighting the green energy transition the Washington Free Beacon has learned. Former president Joe Bidens Department of Energy awarded the contract to the Native American firm Cherokee Nation Strategic Programs—which is classified as a minorityowned small business—in March 2023 for the stated purpose of rebranding the agency according to internal documents and records reviewed by the Free Beacon. The project however fell far behind schedule—by late 2024 the firm only delivered a logo and failed to make progress on the website redesign. Yes but not the same jobs. Just as problems will evolve so will governments needs. Assuming the Rs lose in 4 years the Ds will slowly change the direction of government and hire staff to accomplish the changes. Clearly we are still going to need air traffic controllers and many other types of people. But some will never come back. No. It is easier to break than fix. And Shit Midas is touching everything. None of these will be fully recovered in any short amount of time. And whatever we do recover wont be the same. Would we want to? I’m sure it will be shown that many positions were necessary and we will have to create those positions again. That won’t be difficult. But we will also find that many positions weren’t actually necessary so why would we want to recreate those? TBD if all the job losses are needed or not. It really depends. For example USAID has been a vehicle for deploying soft power but its nonessential. Those jobs arent coming back. Overall its only about a 10% cut in the workforce. These people will need to take a private sector or State job now. Why in the world would we want to? The FedGov is still the most massive employer ever in the history of the world as we know it it’s a very healthy pruning. He ordered cutbacks at the supercharger division but the manager wouldn’t do it. So he fired everyone and hired the best people back and not that manager. There wasn’t any serious disruption. I don’t agree with doing it that way but it didn’t really hurt the progress. In any case any disruption was to his own company his problem. That is not the case with government. He also fired the whole leadership of Starlink which enabled the network we have today since the replacements did it right. You can’t have the superexpensive boutique satellite attitude when you need to launch thousands of them and produce them quickly enough to do that as Amazon is discovering since they hired the guy Musk fired. Federal jobs are mostly a drag on US prosperity. Government departments with expanding mandates and zero incentives to control spending sap tax dollars from private citizens and enterprise that otherwise could be used to fund innovation and expansion Not a big fan of the government 30 on 30. Not a big fan of big government as far as Im concerned 12% is too low. Too much corruption too much laundering too much... Of everything. Abolish the IRS ATF and especially the IRS. The IRS needs to be pummeled until its backwards. 2.4 million government workers 12% get laid off? Recoup losses? No. AntiFa needs to become AntiFed. Stop giving so much control to these people. Yes there is plenty of manual labor that needs to be done to put this country back together. This isn’t all mindless work people need to apply their critical thinking and also.. accomplish more then just pushing papers back and forth. Also… the plan is to basically rig a Political Bomb” that will make it impossible to rehire but dramatically cutting taxation and offsetting with tariffs. If people are suddenly paying next to no federal taxes then all of a sudden asked to pay 20% you don’t think they will notice ? This also forces future administrations to stay diligent with trade because it will be the primary source of federal revenue. Post 96 Do you think the real silent majority is the Independents? Came across this article that focused on the Independents as the new political movement that is the majority given that increasing numbers of people are unhappy with either Dem or Rep sides and most people dont actually want to take a rise. Do you think this is accurate? What are your thoughts on Independentleaning \*meaning Independentminded Republicans and Democrats not just selfidentified Independents being the real silent majority? . This is a subreddit for genuine discussion * Please keep it civil. Report rulebreaking comments for moderator review. * Dont post low effort comments like joke threads memes slogans or links without context. * Help prevent this subreddit from becoming an echo chamber. Please dont downvote comments with which you disagree. Violators will be fed to the bear. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* You have to take into account their political lean not their party registration. Someone who says they’re independent but have hard right political views is not really an independent voter. But people also confuse ‘independent’ and ‘swing’ Most independent” people I meet try to claim that as some sort of Get Out Of Jail Free card. In reality they lean one way or another but try to claim they don’t. That’s not true of *everyone* of course but it’s become quite clear the last three elections what the makeup of voters is. Personally I found myself more shocked at how many voters spend no time looking into policy direction or anything related to the election until the actual election week. It’s shocking to know that people just sort of go well election is this week. Better look at them real fast” and then never spend a moment thinking about it again. The silent majority has never been a real thing”. It was a simple platitude to define everyone who isn’t a hippie” as agreeing with Republicans. And like most simple see thru strategies the right attempts it somehow worked because a radical left rocks the boat way more than a radical right when it comes down to business and business runs the media and they like it that way. I dont think there *is* a silent majority. Firstly because I dont think any position in American politics actually has a majority among the entire population and secondly because nobody is silent about their beliefs. The large number of nonvoting adults arent silent just because theyre not making themselves heard with a vote. Some are loudly against any of the candidates and some are loudly ignorant about politics but theyre still loud about it. We dont need to study the secret unspoken political leanings of people who proudly dont know anything about politics because there isnt some deeper meaning. I think the label of Independent is kind of fraught in an American context. Theres *tons* of people who will readily identify as independent but will still vote red or blue the whole ticket every time. Theyre not happy with their party but theyre even more unhappy with the opposite party so theyll still vote with red or blue despite refusing to verbally identify with them. I also tend to think the silent majority isnt actually a real thing. Two party system sucks most people I know arent happy with the democrats but voted for them anyways. Republican views are antithetical to everything me and my friends believe in socialism rights for LGBT and womens reproductive rights etc and democrats dont represent my views on many issues anti war anti Zionist etc not sufficiently pushing wealth tax healthcare reform etc. So in my opinion yes I would like a party that represents me and also has some value for me to vote for. Voting for the socialist party doesnt change anything but they at least sufficiently represent me and democrats can beat republicans but they dont represent my views. There’s no such thing as a silent majority. Speak up or shut up. If you’re silent on election day I don’t want to hear you later. Are the choices sometimes both bad? Yes. That’s life. One of them if you pay attention is at least marginally better than the other. Guaranteed. There’s no excuse not to vote. You can opt out of voting but not the outcome. No. When asked about specifics there is large hump of people that are centered right at the left edge of democrats they arent represented by policies and dont vote. What is called radical left is really just market socialism where the goal is that if someone is too old to work due to exhaustion age or child rearing they can live but without any luxuries beyond some free games public tv and an extra tasty meal twice a month. You would think them to be Dems but they come from a wide cultural background. The independents that are politically active and swing from Dems and Reps are business owners and male suburbanites voting on cultural issues. But even this class of people is voting less and less because they do not feel represented. The real silent majority in truth is working people a.k.a. Americas backbone with pliantly tensile heterodox views politically culturally socially etc. who dont neatly fit into our rigidly infelxible twoparty system which frothingatthemouth rabid extremists on Team Red and bloviating knowitall pieces of excrement on Team Blue due to their sociopathic lack of cognitive empathy and ineffectively feigned affective empathy fail to connect with relate to and understand in earnest. Independents almost solely vote Republican. Its a thin line between them and Libertarians. In other words bitchy Contrarians who just want what they want to take while giving little back. I like that. the real silent majority are the Independents. not likely true I feel like 90% of voters maybe 80% are either D or R. but it would be nice if the independents grow. The problem with independent voters is they do not vote in primaries cause they are not allowed to so during primaries their vote doesn’t count and if they don’t like who’s running for president it’s their own fault. Pick a damn side. Its called a bellcurve. The answer is complicated and it will depend on execution. In my opinion the future is a bipartisan party. There are \*a lot\* of topics that are bipartisan they also happen to be the biggest talking points politically exception from mainstream media or politicians speaking. I am talking accessible healthcare a rebalance of taxes less tax breaks less monopolies more balance patents and copyrights system more jobs less dependence on a cold war adversary the public antagonization of the terrorists groups of Mexico known as the Cartel etc. I think that the biggest obstacle most out of touch politicians will have is understanding what the center of the bellcurve means. Majority of people are either moderates centrists or leaning dominantly moderate but little more emphasis one way or the other. These people are like most normal people they dont always have strong stances on \*every\* topic so they might have two left leaning stances and two right leaning stances everything else is apolitical and unimportant to them which mathematically makes them centered. Some are moderate because instead they have a hybrid stance on their beliefs thats neither fully the vision the left has nor fully the vision the right has but their opinion is real rather than absent. There is also the individuals which are moderate because theyre apolitical on all mainstream politics. For example maybe someone doesnt care about immigration woke culture for or against etc. Some people really are focused on their own personal universe most in fact and its because they dont pretend they understand topics well enough to have an opinion on them or even they just dont care and focus on themselves first as a priority before focusing on others. Even though the majority of people are moderates/centrists they easily can be further segregated into six different groups. This is what happens when you use a tool like a political compass its honestly useless the closer to the center you go. I think the largest agreed stance is an untapped one libertarianleaning. Majority of people agree laws should exist for things that can negatively impact others without consent murder rape driving without a license making you dangerous to others not following food safety protocol in a restaurant etc.. When it comes to things that dont impact others without consent though suddenly most dont care. Be gay have an abortion do drugs be a sex worker whatever. Maybe I will think youre weird or gross annoying or insufferable I dont care just leave me alone and Ill mind my own business its your right to be weird as is mine. I think that if a third party were to incarnate taking away the Libertarian partys thunder by being a more down to earth arguably less autistic interpretation of Libertarianism would do well. America is supposed to be free that means being as Libertarian as possible without damaging someone elses freedom. Exploit this sentiment most normal people agree with throw in policies that makes life feel less like slavery and more like a transaction and you have a winner in my opinion. Honestly Im pretty convinced the silent majority is parochial idiots who are as terrible at logical reasoning as they are completely uninformed. A large share of voters in both parties dont have good reasons for voting the way they do. If youre a reader of this sub you are so so far removed from the median voter their level of knowledge and the way they arrive at decisions would be unrecognizable to you. To the extent any coherent decisions happen at the ballot box its because of the way the efforts of the intelligent and wellinformed which is not to say wellintentioned happen to have filtered through a morass of random amplifications oversimplifications and mischaracterizations to nudge the ignorant masses this way and that. Independents are mostly a fiction. They don’t exist no matter what they pretend when answering polls. In my experience independents” are just conservatives too scared to come out and say it. Ive noticed many who call themselves independent or libertarian are just trying to hide the fact they are maga. They know hes a criminal pervert but dont want everyone knowing they condone his actions The silent majority are the Democrats who want their party to return to what it was in 2008 Having voted for Perot twice Id like to hope a viable 3d party is possible. The bad news is in 1992 they managed to get over 8 million votes 18.9% but did not elect a single Congresscritter or Senator. Thus far their biggest win was Jessie Ventura as Governor of Minnesota in 1998. The good news is the Dems can return to being the party of the working class instead of the champion of lost causes in favor of things a majority does not support. They could do this by supporting real reform that shifts the burden of paying for our government from the backs of the 20 to 90th%ile onto the broad shoulders of the top 10% who got all the increases in income and wealth since 1981. Heres a short list New tax rates with bottom at ZERO percent for AGI less than $20000 and TMR of 70% for income over $1M. No step up basis on inherited wealth. A $20000 exemption on income of children under 22 to replace the uniform gift to minors nonsense that allows the rich to give each child +$20K tax free every year. Reduce exemption for estate taxes to $5 million from current $13.99M. Restore revenue sharing so States can provide 75% of the operating costs of their higher education like they did prior to 1982. Make higher education include trade schools as well as colleges and universities. Declare all military weapons systems to be the property of the Government and have GIs replace the contractor techs who now maintain those systems at considerably more than we pay our service men and women. Tax all stock buybacks at 90%. End tax exemptions for carried interest. Allow builders to deduct 120% of labor and materials costs for private homes that sell for less than $250000 amount adjusted per Government locality pay index. Allow capital gains rates only for investments in IPOs and Capitalization Issues held at least 5 years. Make all tort settlements loser pays for cost of winners legal fees and other expenses related to bringing the suit. Establish a retirement fund for all workers similar to the Governments Thrift Savings Plan. Raise the cap on FICA contributions to cover 90% of total personal income about $420K as it was during the Reagan Administration and adjust annually for inflation which Reagan neglected to do. Nixon made up the silent majority when everyone in America had turned against the Vietnam War. That was the one where we smashed a democratic society in favor of a fascist dictatorship. He did it so people would vote for him and his secret plan. It was a distraction. There was no silent majority. There isnt one now. Independent just means they vote opposite of what the presiding feeling in the state is and they dont want to get harassed for it. The real silent majority are people who dont vote. That number surpasses either party. Trumps big appeal is turning out infrequent voters If you had a preferential voting system like my home Australia I think both major parties would be history tbh. Three number of Americans who would rather vote for other people/groups but stick with the Ds/Rs for fear of throwing their vote away is mind boggling to me So frustrating that 80 million Americans didn’t vote last time! We had an experienced and very worthy candidate. I voted for Kamala Harris and lost because she happened to be a woman and a woman of color. Damn those 80 million! I think the silent majority is the nonexistent workers’ party. A party that could represent the interests of the vast majority of Americans without playing culture war mind games on everyone is sorely needed The reason turnouts havent been what they could be is that the twoparty system is a failure. Most elections today only offer a choice between dumb and dumber. Since neither party is willing to address the needs and desires of the average voter and consistently legislate in favor of whatever the donor class wants why validate either? Post 97 Would you vote for AOC if she won the Democratic primary ? In a hypothetical match between JD Vance and AOC would you vote for AOC ? Why or why not ? And what is your political alignment? I’ve been seeing alot of talk about her in the news as she recently gained alot of publicity and her approval rating has increased. A lot of people think she has the potential to win in 2028 and just seeing where everyones headspace is at. . This is a subreddit for genuine discussion * Please keep it civil. Report rulebreaking comments for moderator review. * Dont post low effort comments like joke threads memes slogans or links without context. * Help prevent this subreddit from becoming an echo chamber. Please dont downvote comments with which you disagree. Violators will be fed to the bear. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* I would vote for any Democrat candidate that won the Democratic primary. The alternative is either Trump again via some shady or previously illegal scheme he and Congress or the Supreme Court have cooked up or a Trump sycophant. And that’s assuming we still have elections. Anyone who is being picky about which Democrat they will and won’t vote for at this point isn’t reading the room. OP do you work for AOC the DNC or a Washington think tank? Because this is the only post you’ve made in four separate subs in the last 12 days your account has been open. Id literally vote for anyone who will stop the corporate coup happening. And yes Dems and Republicans are both in the pockets. But some are hundreds of millions in the hole versus one million. So Id vote for anyone that will hold corporations accountable and actually fix the racial/ wealth inequality in this country. Political ideology is the least important to me. Be a capitalist socialist communist idgaf. Because whatever has been happening the past two decades is not even capitalism which Im also not a fan of. Anything is better than going back to feudalism. I would vote for a ham sandwich if it was running against JD Vance. I would absolutely vote for AOC but I would do so with trepidation as those are some long odds. The real question is whether she or the ham sandwich would have a better chance. I admire her but lets be honest youd be hardpressed to name a more divisive national political figure. JD Vance shouldnt be hard to beat. He doesnt have Trumps charisma some of his actual positions are creepy as hell hes about as likeable as a potato bug and in 4 years from now Trumps approval ratings will probably be a hair or two north of Bill Cosbys. But if you thought that half the country despised Hilary Clinton then oh boy.... we need to stop thinking about what we do AFTER the primary and star thinking about what we do BEFORE the primary. by the time the primaries are over you choices have already been taken away. make your voice heard BEFORE the primary... thats where the rubber meets the road. I’d be thrilled to vote for her and I think some people are selling her short. That said I’d prefer she run for senator in NY. She’s the type of mold Dems need though. Young exceptional communicator who knows how to get attention. People would be nervous to run AOC because she’s a firebrand and Dems have become so risk adverse because we’re terrified of Fox News. Problem is Fox is going to call ANYBODY we nominate a Marxist communist radical left” etc. Joe Biden’s problem is he was unable to push back on it because he was too safe too traditional and didn’t want to offend so we had just one sided criticism without any attention the other way. AOC is a MASTER at getting attention. Dems need that. It doesn’t have to be her this is why we have a primary process to find out who the country thinks is the best equipped to win but I wouldn’t sell her short. I guess. Not a huge fan but its likely better than any alternative thr Republicanswill bring. My core issues is that Im not a supporter of Universal Income MMT homes gaurantee open borders and more of the farther left initiatives. Im a believer that if we build a healthy economy and add some regulations around tuition and Healthcare costs we can improve the lives of those struggling without increasing taxes to cover for social programs. We were tracking well under Clinton and Obama and I dont see the reason to swing to an extreme. Its like this ... if your economy is shit so citizens suffer you dont need to give them things for free and increase the deficit in the process. Thats like a bandaid over a gunshot wound. Instead fix the economy so everyone makes a reasonable wage that affords the necessities in life and ensure corporations cant gouged you in the process. Im a centerleft liberal. Exanarchist exsocialist and I support mixed economy equal rights and opportunities for all races ethnicities religions genders sexes creeds and other identity markers. I support human rights the environment and reproductive choice and freedom. I believe in centralized government pluralism proportionally representative democracy in a federal republic system of government. Ranked Choice Voting a strong welfare state and yes America SHOULD police the world and defend human rights and each nations national sovereignty across the globe. I support NATO want to defend Ukraine from Russian invasion and defend Israel from genocidal terrorists. I want relatively open borders pathway to citizenship for all undocumented migrants and the Equality Act and the Equal Pay Act to both be made into Constitutional Amendments. I oppose populism and nationalism. A lot of people think she has the potential to win in 2028 and just seeing where everyones headspace is at. A lot of people think a lot of things. A lot of people are absolutely delusional. A lot of people still approve of the current US administration after voting it in after all. Come 2028 the GOP is very likely going to be in disarray at a significant disadvantage. All thats needed for democrats is a safe boring candidate that wont alienate lowinformation swing voters can come across as likeable and charismatic to the average voter and isnt particularly vulnerable to the Fox News propaganda cycle. In other words *the exact opposite of AOC.* Shes gotta be the dream candidate... *for Republicans.* There is probably *literally* no one that the Democratic party could run who would better energize red turnout. Would I vote for her vs. not voting or voting for JD fucking Vance? Without even the most fleeting of doubts yes. But Id be incredibly horribly sad because itd be handing over another election that shouldve been an easy win — AGAIN — when I dont think we can survive much more of it. There is literally no Republican drawing breath today that I would even consider for any office or any position in government or any other place of employment. As a Republican I will never vote for this party again. The fact that none of them even have the courage to stop what trump is doing just shows they dont care about this country. Im never voting for a republican in my life. I will always vote for a permanent and complete dismantling of the republican party which has failed to stand up to fascism and has instead enabled it. So yes Id vote for AOC. If the Dems put her up they really haven’t paid attention. And she’ll lose Yes but I don’t think she can win. We have repeatedly seen that the US isn’t going to vote for a woman. There is too much on the line for Dems to lose in 2028. Her focus and work on anticorruption is outstanding. Her politics generally align with mine. I’d love to see her win. I would and I think many centrist/moderate Democrats would too. The thing about nominating another centristaligned or centristposturing Democrat is that it has a very real chance of dissuading more leftist voters. There is much evidence indicating the ideological purity testing of those types of voters including the proPalestinian protest vote against Kamala Harris. However many of the centrists Ive talked to seem interested in only one thing restoring liberal democracy and getting rid of Trumpism. So Im inclined to believe that the whole of the Democratic Party is more likely to rally around a SocDem progressive in unity than to back another moderate. Theres hardly anybody likely to win a democratic primary that isnt the obvious choice to vote for. Absolutely. I dont support anything Vance is about. And AOC is great.I would absolutely vote for her. Frankly I would vote for her over Newsom my governor Shapiro anyday of the week. You have to get someone that can sway people in the center. Liberal party is way too far left to get any new or undecided voters. Everyone should keep in mind that we need some folks to switch sides and vote democrat in the next election. I love AOC and would vote for her but she would lose the election. Id vote for a fucking snail vs any republican douche esp jd. But yes id vote for aoc. I cant imagine voting for her in the primary though Ill never say never but Id 100% vote for her in the general. I always vote Ill never for for a Republican and I doubt Id ever vote third party. Obviously. I would vote for almost anyone over a bumbling hate monger. I’d vote for George W. Bush over JD Vance. I’d vote for the Ghost of Nixon. Though I’d be a lot happier with AOC. Is this a bot question? It should’ve been would you vote for AOC or _____ IN the primary. Obviously democrats are gonna vote for whoever the candidate is and republicans won’t. I love AOC Ive never watched anything she said and go ????? I feel like she has been a huge victim of media propaganda because the right says she is some extreme leftist and she really isnt lol neither is Bernie. They both talk about incredibly reasonable and normal things to want like universal healthcare worker protections environmental protections etc. AOC is probably the only candidate I would vote for even if she ***didnt*** win the Democratic primary and instead started her own party because shes one of the only candidates whose intentions I genuinely trust completely and who I also think has the support needed to win the general population even while lacking the internal support of the Democratic party. Im not saying I advocate for that its highly risky. But while Democrats may not be as extreme as Republicans they are actively choosing to entrench us into the problems that are propelling extremist Republicans into power repeatedly and many of them are actively complicit voting in favour of Trumps nominees and policy while doing little to try to mitigate the damage. Meanwhile Democrats are actively trying to block progressives like AOC from attaining any semblance of power despite her popularity and influence precisely because they know that she wants to solve many of the problems that they are profiting from. They may not be trying to overthrow Democracy directly and install fascist rule but they are largely passive and complicit in a system that does and if we continue on with business as usual were going to keep losing because its not serving the American people. Id vote for a jar of mayonnaise if it ran against the GOP in any election that I could. 1000% because she is the only working class” dem that is willfully working towards fast and extraordinary change for every day Americans. She’s not a old guard statues quo dem willing to shill for corporations or billionaires. But anyone willing to defend the constitution at this point has my vote. This is the most laughably criminal and incompetent president and administration I’ve ever seen or read about in the countries entire history. Absolutely. I wish there were more like her focusing on the needs of those that the government should be helping to achieve a secure and safe life. Shes the only Democrat Id vote for. Sick of corporatefriendly centrists. Yes. Fascism needs to be destroyed. The real question is whether or not we will ever have a national election? As a former resident of her district I would vote for her only if she ran openly on a socialist platform of NHS and UBI anything less and I don’t know what the point of having a liberal party is I wouldn’t vote for her in the primary but if she was the nominee she’d have my vote. Would much rather someone outside the beltway run like Scott Galloway or Mark Cuban though. I firmly believe she would be a great president. That said weve learned this country wont vote a woman in. Two very competent women ran against the absolute worst candidate in history and lost both times. Weve learned a lesson. It will have to be man in 28. I would vote for a literal bag of aquarium rocks over any member of the current christofascist regime. Still not sure I’m not entirely done with any active role in American politics. It’s so broken it feels almost like condoning it to vote again. Sorry but despite my vote AOC would lose because so far she hasnt articulated a platform that will win back labor aka the vast majority of Americans who show up every day to get stuff done and havent had a real raise since 1981. Heres a couple suggestions she could push to correct this problem for all Dems Tax Reform Bottom rate of ZERO on AGI up to $20000 and top rate of 70% on AGI over $1000000. No step up basis for inherited assets. No tax on money spent for dependent kids education up to $10000/kid. No carried interest deduction. Capital gains applies ONLY to IPOs and Capitalization Issues for expanded capacity in the USA held 5 years. No tax on dependent kids income up to $10000/kid to replace the current exemption for gifts to minors. I’m left of liberal and would vote for her. But heck I’d vote for a ham sandwich over JD Vance. Not sure I would vote for her in a primary though. Mostly because I don’t think the country is ready to elect a woman president. It’s a hard pill to swallow but when we have a women in the presidency it’ll likely be a Republican. My answer is YES with one question. How does she have broad enough appeal?The past election was pretty eye opening as to where the American electorate stands. I would rather grant her the vice presidency and then make her speaker of the house as she’s clearly not done with the legislative process and loves being involved. Purity testing only comes from the left. Moderates will support the eventual nominee regardless of Would never vote for her. If the Democratic Party made her the candidate they would lose again. yes of course but I hope she doesnt run. I want to actually unseat the GOP and there’s too many people that would refuse to vote for her. Tim Walz should be the candidate. Nice safe white old man that middle America can feel ok putting in a ballot for against party lines. Give him 8 years and THEN you put AOC on the ballot. I am watching the Republican party arresting judges mayors trying to end Habeus Corpus and due process they are working hard to neuter checks and balances. Everything in government is being cut except for ICE who covers their faces and has armored vehicles and claim they dont need warrants. JD Vance believes we arent going far enough. I would vote for a hot turd before I would vote for someone who believes this isnt going far enough. As for AOC I am not a huge fan but if she gets the nomination I would happily vote for her. Id vote for almost anybody other than Trump but I think the country doesnt share the same opinion. Apparently there are a lot of people out there who indeed do like him and his ideas. At one time I used to think Reddit was a good gauge on how the majority of Americans feel about the direction of our nation but I have learned that is simply not the case. Im an independent. Though I lean conservative there is no way Id vote for anyone in Trumps orbit. That being said the problem with AOC is she doesnt temper her policies and cant win over conservative voters. From the Green New Deal website The Green New Deal starts with a WWIItype mobilization to address the grave threat posed by climate change transitioning our country to 100% clean energy by 2030. Clean energy does not include natural gas biomass nuclear power or the oxymoron clean coal.” The implementation of the Green New Deal will revive the economy turn the tide on climate change and make wars for oil obsolete. This latter result in turn enables a 50% cut in the military budget since maintaining bases all over the world to safeguard fossil fuel supplies and routes of transportation could no longer be justified. Its a great thing to go 100% clean energy but to do this in a few years? No nuclear? With current renewable technology I would bet its not possible to meet current demands. And cut the military by 50%. Its bad science bad economics and bad politics. There is nothing intrinsically wrong with the Green New Deal other than the timeline and the science / economics to back it up. Harris got crushed and was labeled as too radical. She was a DA who was criticized by the furtherleft for being to harsh on crime. AOC will suffer a worse fate unless she embraces a more moderate stance. IMHO its my opinion and Im entitled to regardless of who agrees with me or disagrees with me for whatever reasons I fail to see whereas shes qualified to even hold the political office she has other than she has curb appeal to the young and very small and varied fractured different groups that comprise the Democratic Party. With President Trump rooting out illegal immigrants the Federal Government Deep State employees dismantling the Lefts taxpayers sponsored propaganda networks at NPR &amp PBS The Department of Youth Left Wng Indoctrination aka The Department of Education pushing for Voter Identification shrinking or eliminating the Democrats Slush Funds? The chances of someone AOC becoming President are slim to none. It would hard if not difficult for someone if AOC to win the White House. Trump &amp Vance are NOT the Democrats main problem nor is the Republican Party. Its the people that voted President Trump into office. America is currently engaged in a political ~ cultural ~ societal Cold Civil War The Lefts repeated and continued attempts to shove their opinions idealogy down the Rights throats wont take place without resistance from the Right. Its clearly obvious and apparent that the Lefts end game objectives is to establish PERMANENT One Party rule control and DOMINATION of Congress the White House The Supreme Court and the whole of the Federal Government and America. Thats NOT going to happen anytime soon in the near foreseeable future IMHO. If highly visible individuals such as Hillary Clinton and former VP Harris couldnt clear the high bars than someone such as AOC hadnt a chance. Im NOT opposed to choosing and voting for someone thats a Woman or POC. But its going to have to be someone thats a moderate that appeals to bot sides. Personally I believe General Collin Powell Or someone of his type is the type of President that both sides could come together for Yes I know hes deceased He wasnt politically aligned with either side too much . Yes Ive read his books First Id be sad that the hundreds of higher qualified and **actual** Democrats had died when that meteor hit the convention site. Then Id write in Nina Turner because at least shes honest about hating us and everything we stand for. I’ve been recently told by my lib colleague that she wouldn’t vote for AOC because all the hand waving makes her look unprofessional/unserious and she doesn’t seem smart always angry about something” as if my colleague isn’t constantly griping about politics. As a lesser issue her policies are too extreme” but she was fine with every example I pulled Medicare for all higher taxes etc etc. She’s certainly workable and will come around by the end of the year but those narratives have pushed hard by mainstream news. I’ll either vote third party or not vote at all. Both options are bad. AOC is just to far left and I disagree with most of what she says… Please stop. The Democrat party didn’t learn in 2016 or 2024. A woman in this current timeline will not win against a Republican man. Our country’s democracy is in ruin and you’re contemplating putting a candidate forward that will guarantee a win for the Republicans. Please stop. AOC would be every bit as disastrous for the country as Trump just in different ways. At some point we need a return to normalcy but this isnt it. No. Absolutely not. Im what used to be called a Reagan Democrat. AOC is way too far left. I sincerely believe decades of voting based solely on party is what got us into the mess were in today. I held my nose and voted for Hillary Clinton because she was less awful than Donald Trump. I voted for Joe Biden because he was the only candidate with a reasonable chance of beating Trump and his policies were less bad. I voted for Kamala Harris because there was no other candidate with any hope of beating Trump. I sincerely wish that No Labels had not decided to pull out of the race. I believe a ticket consisting of Joe Manchin and Liz Cheney could have pulled it off. Im done voting for the lesser of two evils. The Republican Party has effectively become the Trump/MAGA party. Theyve sold their souls for his endorsement. The Democratic Party has proven to be completely ineffective. At this point I would love to see recall elections to oust nearly every representative and Senator for reneging on their oath to protect and uphold the Constitution. The founders were afraid of this exact development. They never intended to create a two party system and warned about it. Its a shame they didnt anticipate the complete failure of the system. Dictatorial Executive corrupt ineffective legislative weak Judicial. If the executive continues to defy the judicial and the legislative refuses to impeach and convict we may as well just tear up the Constitution altogether. I won’t vote for her as I’m not inclined to vote Democrat generally. But I do think she is further left than the majority of the party. Her policies based on what I have heard her say would be leaning toward Socialist. She will do well in the Dem primary and could win depending on who runs against her. She’s very popular. But if a centralist type runs against her she could struggle to win enough delegates to take the win A wannabe dictator with fascist tendencies or someone who fights for equal rights under law? I don’t have think twice..the choice is clear. Much as I admire AOC shes very young. I dont think shes ready. Jasmine Crockett otoh was born ready and would make a great President. Post 98 Which current political issue do you think future generations will unanimously agree we got completely wrong — and why? Looking back there are moments in history — slavery segregation denying women the vote — where we now go *How the hell did anyone think that was okay?”* So what are we doing today that will make future generations shake their heads in disbelief? Maybe its about climate inaction housing policy tech regulation AI foreign policy or something we’re barely paying attention to now. I’m not talking about mild disagreements — I mean the things that will seem *morally or logically insane* in hindsight. What’s your pick? . This is a subreddit for genuine discussion * Please keep it civil. Report rulebreaking comments for moderator review. * Dont post low effort comments like joke threads memes slogans or links without context. * Help prevent this subreddit from becoming an echo chamber. Please dont downvote comments with which you disagree. Violators will be fed to the bear. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Climate change. They will ask how the hell we didn’t follow up on Kyoto protocol with anything substantial and how the hell we let politicians spread lies and watch it all crumble. Microplastics and polyfluoroalkyl PFAS are in everything. Study after study documents that plastics and PFAS are in our blood organs etc. The long term health risks are still unknown but having foreign material in the still developing organ tissue of children probably isnt good. To say the least. What is so ridiculous about the situation is that we are completely aware of the problem solutions are pretty easy yet chose to do nothing. For plastics a large percentage of the items that use plastics could easily be replaced by alternatives. It wouldnt take much effort at all to recuse the amount of plastic we use by 80% immediately. Cardboard packaging paper straws canvas bags bamboo disposable utensils glass &amp aluminum bottles etc. Getting to 100% plastic free would be hard. There are industries like medicine where plastics are irreplaceable. That said we can do a lot better. Cleaning up PFAS will require money. That said we know where these chemicals were used. We have the ability to do containment and clean up on those sites. We choose not to because it is expensive. So we leave it and just allow it to slowly bleed into our water and food supply. In the future people will be baffled by how selfish and lazy we are today that were willfully contaminating the entire plastic and our own bodies. Went through most of the comments and was astounded to see that nobody mentioned our criminal justice and carceral systems. Our myopic and emotional focus on punishment instead of rehabilitation is such an important factor behind why we have the largest prison population in the world. Our carceral system is a direct extension of the Jim Crow era designed to suppress and subjugate the black population with horrendous consequences for our entire society. Yet our modern discourse is focused on which toilets people should be able to use. We will most likely look back on this time with similar disgust as we currently look back on the times of chattel slavery assuming that the entire world doesnt collapse due to climate change. This of course is another one of the many consequences of being blinded by our dogmatic adherence to the cult of personal responsibility. Were incapable of making so many blatantly obvious improvements to our institutions and structures because that would require us to admit that humans are biological animals that are largely the results of their circumstances interconnected in a stupifyingly complex web of cause and effect and that humans are not isolated souls that use mystically generated willpower to single handedly shape their realities and must be morally punished for any incorrect actions far beyond any point that is demonstrated to be beneficial. It is hilariously obvious that the outcomes of a society depend upon every last facet pertaining to how that society is structured. Anyone from the distant future who looks back at this time will know that the amount of crime that occurs and the number of people in prison depends on material conditions and how society is structured as is the case with any outcomes in society. We can easily make sciencebacked and evidencebased changes that will reduce the prevalence of crime but we simply dont because our society is not set up in such a way that producing that outcome is a meaningful goal and of course because humans are dumb animals that are primarily driven by raw emotion rather than logic. Thats just a part of the material conditions we inhereted from existing as a species of ape on planet earth. The only real goal the current structure of the US is set to achieve and uphold is whatever is in the interest of the capitalist ruling class. Words cannot describe how profoundly stupid we are as a society. Its gotta be anthropogenic climate change. It will be widely understood one day that humans and industrialization were the source of the sudden leap in the worlds average temperature. Were in the middle of an extinctionlevel event and things like international human migration and croney capitalism will only get worse as parts of the world become desertified washed away by hurricanes or under constant threat by wildfire. The seasons are already disrupted around the world heatwaves and cold snaps are killing people each year in highly developed countries and the questioning of climate changes most fundamental and understood scientific concepts has led to the degradation of the meaning of the word truth everywhere. Climate issues and allowing authoritarian influence. The former because its going to doom us all the latter because its suicidal. The point where Russia is known to have influenced the election is the point where we shouldve returned fire not rolled over to Putin. Yeah climate but whatever. What people in the future will be judging us hard about is voting in candidates which have prooven their authoritarian tendencies and trying to overthrow an election not once but voting for them multiple times This democratic backsliding will cost us so much in economic and social progress Definitely climate inaction. Future generations will laugh at us not just for voting in an authoritarian moron but for much of the populace literally deluding themselves into complete denial of global warming. Just because it was easier to pretend like it doesnt exist. Pathetic really. Indulging the whims of an cringy orange criminal. Bending reality to match whatever rattles around in his empty head and dribble out of his face. Allowing him to overstep his power and authority because he is accustomed to the privilege of never hearing the word no. For one I think the personal isolation epidemic and the dying off of communities . Even though the world population is the largest it has ever been feelings of isolation are on the rise in first world countries. There are a lot of factors that influence this such as the Covid fallout mental illness recession work hours being longer technology e.t.c... but this is a feedback loop. Because people are more isolated than they have ever been it contributes to peoples mental physical financial and other woes.... Which in turn isolates people farther..... Which then contributes more to peoples woes and so on and so forth. Vicious cycle. The male and female loneliness epidemic are a symptom of this. You could also lump low birthrates in with it too not that low birthrates are always a bad thing nor are high birthrates always a good thing. Right now we barely notice this increasing isolation because it isnt really an immediate life threatening issue even less immediate than climate change. I would be surprised if this personal isolation epidemic didnt warrant some kind of political movement or global task force in the future. I realize this is a bit *topical* but I genuinely think that people are going to look back on Israels genocide and be deeply ashamed that they ever carried water for it. I wish I knew better what ultimately will happen with the Palestinian people but I definitely think the majority of people are going to look back and realize they cheered on a genocide comparable to the Holocaust and are going to struggle to live with that. Money In Politics get rid of that and you will only see politicians who arent there for the money. Eating meat is a popular choice for this question. I think in the future there will be more and more alternatives to animal products so at some point it will look quite barbarian that we held animals as slaves and killed them for consumption. About 99% of what is happening now is and will be a complete disaster that future generations will abhor. The problem is there may not be a livable planet because of the shitshow we live in now. Trump. The whole idea that he ever had the slightest value to offer America. All the antiTrans stuff. In the UK it just seems like more Clause 28 stuff and homophobia rehashed. And to the layman Rowling has started to sound ranty rattled and defensive. Hum today not everyone unanimously agrees we were wrong on that. Theres political movements pushing for removing rights to women and minorities and defending forms of neoslavery. I think the behavior of ICE agents toward nongang brown skinned people will shock the conscience of future generations. Support for Israel for one. They’ll look back and be like wait our country supported violent ethnic supremacists for that long? During a genocide even? And it was bipartisan?!” I think universal healthcare will be another issue. Especially with how so many people saying they want it spent two decades electing people opposed to it. Oh and democracy. They’ll find it strange how cultish society was in never demanding more representative government even those who would talk about democracy” and the vote all the time. Climate change is the obvious answer here. I also think people will be fair less free market capitalism in the future due to AI advancements. Free market capitalism and AI don’t mix well because part of what keeps capitalism together is the availability of jobs if those jobs go away society will collapse. Factory farming. At least I hope so. This type of food production hurts the environment terribly cruel to so many animals and creates risks to human health given intensive conditions dependance on antibiotics and disease manifestation and spread. eating meat and i say this as someone who still eats meat. there’s a significantly higher resource cost to produce meat compared to plants simply due to the fact that animals are at a higher trophic level. it’s much more efficient to farm plants. i don’t think eating meat will go away entirely but it certainly won’t be as common. climate change is the big one. unfortunately that realization will come too late. even discovering fully scalable nuclear fusion tomorrow would not prevent average global temperature increases for the next 75 years or more. in that time we’re going to see mass ecological destruction and disruption as so many of the species on earth struggle to keep up with a rapidly changing environment. people are going to realize within 1015 years that in basically everything other than physical sports trans people do not affect their lives. i’d imagine it will go the same way support for gay and lesbian people did in the 90s2000s. you’ll still have people that militantly hate trans people or any other out group but i don’t think the widespread paranoia that exists about trans people right now will continue for more than a decade. Our current tax code which places the burden of running the Nation on the 2090%. This is why we dont have universal single payer health care or tuition free higher education and the middle class hasnt seen their standard of living improve since 1981. Its also why we havent tackled any really big problems since the InterState the moneys there. its just in the wrong pockets. Lack of universal healthcare. The fact that people have gone bankrupt or died because of not being able to afford healthcare and the way the health insurance industry is run is going to horrify people. Slavery was obviously the worst mistake in US history. It was inhumane led to a civil war and is directly responsible for a large amount of violent crime and poverty plaguing the country today. As far as current issues go I would say luxury beliefs are the biggest threat to the wellbeing of modern western society. Western support for Israel. Really was never ambiguous to begin with but the daily documentation and open incitement of genocide from the Israelis themselves has certainly changed things. 1 The response to climate change no question. Ramping up fossils fuel production and wasteful uses of energy to satisfy some perverse profit motive when we should be doing the exact opposite. 2 following close behind is the total indifference and complicity by socalled democratic states and the main stream press to a genocide playing out in front of our eyes again for a perverse ideological obsession to greed and a profit motive. Much of the wealth that exists in the Western world today was enabled by what are essentially slave labor conditions in foreign countries especially China. I have a feeling that the full scope of these conditions arent yet known and one day people are going to look back on this horrified. Normalizing trade with the PRC in the belief that doing so would cause them to slowly democratize 2 Party system will get America in the long run. Either 1 side or the other and that’s faction has split us already. We need more parties added. Not implementing universal health care sooner the patriot act Congress member trading stocks A bit of a different answer and I’m not a debt bug by any means but if you look at how irresponsible spending has been since the turn of the millennium with wars/tax cuts it’s not hard to see how the debt has exploded. At some point in my life I fully expect to see tax increases cuts in Medicare services SSA contribution increases and a general increase in the retirement age. A majority in America STILL think slavery segregation denying women the vote is A OK. Thats where future and current generations think you are insane. Campaign Finance. The thing that threatens the enlightenment values that are so core to America is the concentration of power in the hands of the wealthy due to our campaign finance laws. This creates a blocker for more or less every significant reform to address any other issue and encourages the wrong people to seek office. For the love of money is a root of all kinds of evil. Some people eager for money have wandered from the faith and pierced themselves with many griefs. 1 Timothy 610 Kicking the can down the road addressing Social Security and Medicare. 8 years till the shit hits the fan and everyone in Washington knew this was coming for decades. The changes necessary are going to be more painful the longer we wait. Growth is good. Well admit to this being insane when there is nothing else to take. I think it will be voting in the entire Trump regime. If things keep going the way they are were setting for at least a civil war if nothing else. Universally is will be climate change. Next on the list will be immigration. Next on the list will be trying to negotiate with terrorist Iran and communist China. Somewhere in there will be tolerating transgender men in womens sports. Trans we now live in a post cass report post UK Supreme Court decision. Despite how many of us may feel we were always going to eventually reach a moment where lawyers were going write laws about it who gets to be part of this protected class and we are now there. And I think as we get past that unless something truly radical happens soon it seems western society is forming a very specific legal definition of trans. That’s not to say people will continue to push for more trans rights but we seem to be reaching a baseline for the term trans” as a protected class. How that continues to be expanded I don’t know Erasing the contribution minorities played in the history of our great country. Current corrupt politicians and the supreme courts ability to free our president from wrongdoing while in office Who are we in this question exactly? For something to be a political issue means theres a controversy involved which would imply a substantial portion of the population are on whatever side future generations agree is right. Two things...first the failure to see climate change and the horrible losses of animal species including in our waters plants all living things Second...Trump and his crimes his family and other choices for political office his greed and the disbelief we invited it into our lives .it will be seen as comparable to Hitler and the way we learned about him in grade school with the horror and disbelief. I sincerely pray for help on these issues . Terrifying children by telling them God will have them burned in hellfire forever if they ever question their religion. It’s a form if child abuse and someday it will be against the law. Capital punishment is the most logical answer here. While its probably less popular than its ever been at present the reality is that even the opposition often comes with caveats and society is very likely to see it for what it is. I think theres a day as well where science completely outpaces whatever political or societal discussions we have about abortion and we end up in a spot where were shocked it was such an issue to begin with. Immigration. Hatred of foreigners is stupid bigotry. Economists say were literally wasting half of global GDP by not adopting global open borders. Immigration restrictions are the biggest source of stupid bigotry since the days women were prohibited from working. The Trump administration will be seen as roughly equivalent to the holocaust unless things change soon. Ignorance and bigotry are behind all opposition to open borders. Future generations will take this for granted. Not enough was done to separate church from state. Not enough was done to bolster checks and balances in our Government.... obviously. Not enough was done to protect or further workers rights. The amount of technology kids are exposed to. Massive amounts of screen time. Social media carried around in their pockets. Easy access to pornography. And now AI taking over their school work. Well eventually treat tech the way the French treat alcohol. None for little kids and teens can have a little with adult supervision. The idea that changing confused and depressed boys into girls and vice versa was good medical science or made any sense at all. Psychological science is going to lose a lot of credibility for decades because of it. How we ended up with a felon as president and the rest if his criminal cabinet members. The vegans will be fully vindicated but the transition wont come until we have abundant and affordable lab grown meat and dairy. Once people can eat lab grown animal products eventually everyone will come to see our current treatment of livestock as barbaric. FAILING TO FACE THE TRUTH regarding WHY SOME PPL/COMMUNITIES are more than discriminated against and spreading those GENERATIONAL LIES. The truth may hurt but it also cleanses the minds and souls. Just sayin’ The DEI practice of making quotas and targets based on race and gender You havent been paying attention to American politics the last decade slavery segregation denying women sufferage has strong support among the ruling regime Democracy. The idea that the average idiot should decide matters of life and death of the fate of the world will be considered completely insane as it has for most of history. Who in fact was the real President during Joe Biden’s administration? We know now that he was cognitively impaired and that this fact was covered up what we don’t know is why it needed to be covered up and why there’s so little curiosity as to who was really calling the shots. 2 things I think the answers will be 1 the definition of what is morally insane politically. Future generations will look at the socialist tendencies taking from the rich giving to the poor approach of the Left and condemn it as directly morally wrong under a new definition of morality. 2 At the very same time they will look at the alternatives offered by the Republicans pretending to be in favor of individual rights business free markets capitalism property rights rights of free speech etc. and condemn in clear terms the Republicans pretenses at these matters while the Republicans quite obviously are cashing in on the desire to work against the Democrats socialism to further their own powergrabbing fascist pseudofreedomdefending agenda. Democrats enabled mass illegal immigration which brought with it organized gang activity who started robbing Americans across America. Covid was leaked from a Chinese lab. Democrat soft on crime policies led to .. surprise surprise more crime. Soft on drug user policies were a miserable failure. All left wing policies led to mass homelessness rampant crime and mayhem on the streets. Israel also has a point they are also threatened by genocide should the surrounding Arab nations ever manage to overcome them.... Russia collusion issue was a complete political issue generated by the Democrats to stop Trump from running again... Green New deal was a front to sell Chinese technology to the West....I can go on and on Post 99 How should India respond to Pakistansponsored terrorism?? Every few years theres a major terror attack linked to Pakistanbased groups—and the cycle repeats outrage diplomatic protests maybe a strike then back to business. Is that enough? Or is it time India changed the playbook something stronger more permanent? What kind of response actually makes a difference? . This is a subreddit for genuine discussion * Please keep it civil. Report rulebreaking comments for moderator review. * Dont post low effort comments like joke threads memes slogans or links without context. * Help prevent this subreddit from becoming an echo chamber. Please dont downvote comments with which you disagree. Violators will be fed to the bear. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* You have to address the root issues of the conflict obviously much harder than it sounds Generational conflicts don’t go away with more bombs especially with nuclear armed belligerents honestly this question just highlights how clueless indians are about the state of affairs in pakistan. civil unrest has been very significant the past few years and people decry the pak armys brutal crackdown on dissidents. Theyve been fighting with separatist movements in every province. How should India respond? Start by recognizing that youre facing a headless chicken The biggest mistake you can do is give pakistan a unifying enemy! This recent escalation of tensions only helped the corrupt pakistani military boost morale during a time when its people were rallying against it. By ending the military occupation of Kashmir sitting down at a table with local Kashmiri representatives and the Pakistanis negotiating in good faith and solving the Kashmir issue/dispute/whatever you wanna call it once and for all. Consider this If Pakistan ceased to exist tomorrow India would still be facing terror attacks in Kashmir. The reality is that the local Kashmiris do not want to be part of India and will continue to resist by force if need be. Pakistan at this point only offers minimal support and mostly lip service by now the Kashmiri insurgency is an entirely homegrown phenomenon. If there was no Pakistan some other nation perhaps China perhaps Afghanistan maybe even Iran would simply fill that role. And of course the brutality of the Indian occupation only adds further fuel to the fire. India is trying to solve a political problem with a military solution. It may work in the short term but it will fail in the long term look no further than Indias own history of being under British colonial rule and occupation. For one thing all the vitriol pointed towards Pakistan as a country and Pakistani’s as citizens of said country is definitely not helping form any response that would decrease tensions and ensure peace for generations. Your question seems to indicate you want to increase tensions too ‘something stronger more permanent’. I am not a master of how to stop terrorism but usually killing of more of the other country’s citizens and/or taking over permanently a bit of their land you’re quarrelling over will actually increase the number of said terrorists you want to combat. Indian military actions only benefit the military in Pakistan which has been struggling with legitimacy due to Imran Khan. If anything India should be exploiting the political situation. Theres no evidence of Pakistans involvement in terrorism in Pakistan. Pakistan herself has suffered badly from menace of terrorism and lost lives of more than 90000 Pakistanis to terrorism. However theres plenty of evidence that India supports separatist organisations including BLA and sponsors terrorists in Balochistan. BLA itself claims that theyre supported by India in their so called movement for a separate country. Recently BLA killed innocent Punjabis without any reason. Indian agent Kulboshan Jadav was arrested from Balochistan for his involvement in terrorist attacks. Its better for India to stop supporting terrorists and give peace a chance to flourish in the region. Why do people talk like this? What do you want Gaza 2.0? Maybe they should respond by allowing a referendum so people can vote for their autonomy? But modern nation states reject that notion because once they do that it’s a domino effect people don’t want to be oppressed. Post 100 Does the pope still move politics? TLDR **how much political influence does a pope actually have today especially in the U.S.?** I’m not religious but I’ve been seeing the new pope all over my feed and trying to figure out what the big deal is. Pope Leo XIV has an X account that’s now getting a ton of attention. It includes years of tweets where he condemns systemic racism criticizes antiimmigration policies including Trump actions and calls for gun control reform. Seems like his views are pretty progressive. But it got me thinking **how much political influence does a pope actually have today especially in the U.S.?** . This is a subreddit for genuine discussion * Please keep it civil. Report rulebreaking comments for moderator review. * Dont post low effort comments like joke threads memes slogans or links without context. * Help prevent this subreddit from becoming an echo chamber. Please dont downvote comments with which you disagree. Violators will be fed to the bear. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* IMHO its not so much that the Pope is political but that the Republican party has rebuilt itself as the Christian party. When the Pope takes Catholicism in a different direction than rightwing America do they blame themselves for not being religious or do they blame religion for not being what they want it to be? He has a lot of influence on his Catholic followers. And in some countries e.g. USA they in turn have a strong influence on their government. The popes roll as an international negotiator is pretty significant. The last pope actually facilitated a lot of the talks between the US and Cuba during the Obama administration. The fact that this one is showing a strong interest in immigration refugees poverty and climate change is a big deal. When it comes to political issues hes just a guy with a big soapbox. Even Catholics arent necessarily deferential to him on matters outside of church doctrine. Going to his tweets specifically theyre not going to sway anyone. Tweeting Blacks Lives Matter wont change anyones opinion on the BLM movement but it might change their opinion about the Pope. I just saw that the Church said in the past it didnt want an American Pope since America was so powerful around the globe. I guess they changed their minds on our level of power now or their standards. I think they know they are dying so they are trying to change with the times so they dont lose more of their global fortunes in property and influence. America is ripe for anything loosely Jesus and Traditional Values so Pope news is hitting algorithms hard. . https//www.yahoo.com/news/christianitytodayeditorevangelicalscall163440579.html American evangelicals and tradcaths are heretics and hypocrites. The pope or the Vantican church itself doesn’t move politics. Politicians make the decision to be moved on their own individually. Yes because decent people voted for Trump because he opposes abortion despite all the other evils he enacts. Whether or not it was intentional choosing an american pope means putting religious influence further in the middle of political division. Even if the new pope does absolutely nothing from now on both democrats and republicans will use his previous acts to justify the partys current behavior somehow. As someone that went to catholic school i can say not much. All but 2 Catholics i know are very pro capital punishment despite the chirch being against it. If the Pope does not have some control in politics different things would happen depending on the context so it is necessary for the Pope to have political power in the world. None hopefully. Render unto Caesar the things which are Caesars and unto God the things that are Gods Nope. He is a figurehead. Similar to the King/Queen of England yes I know the monarchy stays out of politics. I’m referring to how people regard them as celebrities with little to know real power. Even has large as the Catholic Church is they can’t take on world leaders and their band of psycho sympathizers. Reminds me of Stalin’s response when told that the Pope has a lot of power in the world. How many divisions does he command?” Does he support lgbtq? I have seen info possibly disinfo or misinfo that they do not. Update I just watched Conclave for the first time now Im wondering what crazy shit Pope Leo XIV did BTS to get elected. Post 101 Is there a catch to Trump’s recent millionaire tax hike proposal? Trump has recently proposed creating a new 39.6% tax bracket for individuals earning at least $2.5 million or couples earning $5 million. The last Republican president to raise an income tax rate was George H.W. Bush—and even he did so reluctantly. Republicans and conservatives in general have traditionally supported lower income taxes for high earners or even flat taxes ever since Ronald Reagan made supplyside economics the standard Republican economic policy. So why is Trump proposing a tax hike on the rich? Is he doing this because his tariff plans fell through and he’s backed against the wall by the everincreasing national debt or is there some other catch? If a new tax bracket for the wealthy is created by a Republican president how do you think the Democrats will respond—and what could they propose as a better plan? https//www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/20250508/trumpseekstaxhikeonwealthywhoearn25millionormore . This is a subreddit for genuine discussion * Please keep it civil. Report rulebreaking comments for moderator review. * Dont post low effort comments like joke threads memes slogans or links without context. * Help prevent this subreddit from becoming an echo chamber. Please dont downvote comments with which you disagree. Violators will be fed to the bear. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* how do you think the Democrats will respond—and what could they propose as a better plan? They would probably just point out that if we let the Trump tax cuts expire at the end of the year then the current top tax bracket would revert to 39.6% anyways so we should maybe do that and only extend the tax cuts for the middle class rather than creating another tax bracket. The catch is that it’ll never pass. Just like when he announced $25 insulin but it never passed until Biden did it. Republicans gave credit to Trump anyways If no action is taken at all the 39.6% rate bracket kicks in next year for incomes over $546750. This is all tied to the TCJA temporary rates expiring. https//taxfoundation.org/blog/2026taxbracketstaxcutsandjobsactexpires/ So the big catch is essentially giving breaks to everybody below that and just letting things expire above that or creating the bracket for publicity and then letting things expire so they end up where theyd be otherwise. Trump promised a tax cut he promised to reduce the deficit he promised to increase spending on law and order he promised to bring down prices he promised to not reduce medicaid medicare or social security. Its simply not possible to do all that. Something had to give eventually. Of all the promises to break a tax hike on millionaires is certainly the least damaging politically. I seriously doubt that its going to raise enough to cover every thing else though. The catch is that hes already forgotten about it. He said stuff to sound good. But hes not going to actually DO it. The catch is that its probably bullshit. Hes talked about some of this before like closing the carried interest loophole. He talked about that back in 2017 and did nothing. Hes just putting noise out there to confuse the talkspace. There are just so so so many things he needs to distract people from. Plus with this one if he DOES carry it out it enables him to either make the Dems weaken themselves by fighting him on it or he weakens them instead by pushing through part of their agenda on his own. Listen I’m a never trumper. But if he actually accomplished this I would be like okay he did a good job on that.” I’m still not going to like him he’s a terrible human. But I can give credit where credit is due. Just to be clear hes not seeking a tax hike hes reversing his own tax cut on the wealthy. The catch is it wont actually happen. Its just for show to appeal to his poor supporters. Then when it doesnt happen he wont mention it or if hes in the right crowd he will say Congress or the Democrats or immigrants were the reason it failed. Occams Razor is a principle stating that when faced with multiple explanations for the same phenomenon the simplest explanation is usually the correct one. HE DOESNT KNOW WHAT THE HELL HES DOING. Unless argued otherwise it is the simplest answer Many really wealthy people have their net worth in stock and dont earn a traditional salary. For example Jeff Bezos used to be paid $80000 as CEO of Amazon. The number of households making over $1M per year is around 1.3 million in the US. I imagine the number making over $5 million per year consistently is less than 100000. Not exactly a huge voting block. My wife and I earn well over $1M combined and I joke that were Democrat rich. When the democrats raise taxes we get hit but we dont count as wealthy when the GOP is in charge. This proposal is a case in point. Doubt it will happen. Much much more likely are the removal of the Biden tax cuts that help us such as the EV and energy tax rebates and family child tax credits. This is not precisely the question you asked but it worth noting in the discourse that prior to Trumps 2017 tax cuts with this being the highest bracket so if this *were* passed Trumps net effect across his two terms on the taxes of individuals making $2.5 million would be 0%. He’s rapidly losing his man of the people” cred among the base. Why he has any cred to lose is a topic for another day. Trump wants to be popular. He craves adoration. He will say anything that sounds good. This sounds good. And it’s low risk it won’t pass and he can blame Congress. The catch is that Trump just says things and sees what will stick. He has been spewing lies and nonsense for ten years in a row because he knows he will get the media attention. I do not think he understands basic economic concepts see the way he talks about tariffs. I also do not think that Trump the man infamous for trying to not pay his taxes would do anything that would actually increase his own taxes. I think all presidents should start having an RBItype stat. A list of ALL the shit they sling averaged with what becomes law or implemented policy not sure what the qualifier would be. Their Rhetoric To Law average! Im not sure making it rain executive orders like theyre onedollar bills counts as law but thats for the polisci people to figure out. Hey! smart people can you make a presidential stat book for us simpletons? Totally Apolitical too. Just gimme a stat sheet of democracy. Fuck the party’s treat them like Leagues. The catch is Trump is firing a lot of IRS staff and Republicans in Congress are cutting the IRS budget so theres going to be no one around to collect the taxes. Its the tax rate that will apply to people who make that much money if Congress fails to renew Trumps tax cuts. So if theres any catch its not that hes actually raising taxes hes just going to let the cuts expire for people at that income level. Which to be clear is almost 2 million dollars more than the income level it applied to before the first Trump tax cuts. Itll piss off Grover Norquest but otherwise its not a significant change. I dont think theres a catch. Other than its going against their wealthy donor class. But I do get a ton of joy out of Republicans pushing so far that the dog has finally caught the car and they have to figure out how it actually fucking works. He is doing this because the likely good of the US defaulting on the national debt is enormous. This event could possibly occur within the next 18 months and would not only throw the entire World into a great depression it would destroy the USs economic and political leadership for 40 to 80 years. Quite possibly indefinitely. The catch is that its showing that theyre going to probably cut other parts of spend social programs The whole conversation about doge is quite funny people ahead of time were complaining that doge cutting spend wouldnt make a dent in the budget becasue its all the non discretionary spend that would cause issues. So the point of what Trump is trying to do is probably rebalance the internal taxes so that you get \ tighter restrictions on medicare / medicaid / social security which is the lions share of our tax spend \ tax cuts or rather retaining the current tax cuts to 99% of americans on the income side \ tariffs which will in the short term at least be a broad based consumption tax \ millionaire+ tax to cut the legs off of dems who try to say its billionaire giveaways Realistically the goal is to get our spend back to where it was in 2019 at least thats what bessent has said and try and instill growth incentivize more activity domestically try and walk down the debt to not cause a recession Whew good thing tips arent going to be taxed! Otherwise billionaires might have to actually pay taxes on their bonuses instead of their new $1 salary! Well the 1% is 250k+ as far as salaries go at least pre covid. He’s going to be taxing not literally like 10 people if it goes through. Whenever you analyze tax policy remember that before Reagan the top marginal tax rate was over 70%. Democrats and Republicans both *pretend* to fight over taxes but the few percentage points they debate over either way is much closer to maintaining the status quo than reversing Reagans tax cuts. Maintaining Reagans tax cuts is a bipartisan activity. Both parties serve the wealthy first and foremost. Well reality is kicking in. If youre not going to cut Medicaid/Medicare and want to allow some amount of overtime/tips to be tax free one must find the revenue from somewhere. Keep in mind this tax hike is just reversing what his Tax Cuts and Jobs Act did for the rich at that specific bracket bringing the rate from 39.6% to 37% this would set it back to 39.6%. Because Trumps a genius and has no fucking idea what hes doing. Its also likely a ruse since Republicans will NEVER agree to pass it. Its handwavy bullshit. My initial reaction is this seems almost like a means to put a squeeze on those in the very low band of being considered wealthy and to subtly stifle their wealth growth meanwhile the rediculously rich will barely feel it. 3 caveats 1.Both groups mentioned above will find loopholes to avoid paying it Trump isn’t about to impose a tax on himself without already having found a loophole to avoid it but it makes for great sound bites. 2.it will likely never get passed. So goes back to latter part of first point it all makes for good optics and sound bites to those who read only headlines and nothing else. 3. They’ll purpose this in a bill with a bunch of really devious riders. Then when democrats vote it down with just enough ‘ney’ GOP votes they can play their little point blame and accuse the other ppl of being hypocrites” game of blaming the Democrats for not wanting to tax the rich like they say they want to” and gaslight the base to ignoring the fact it was voted down because of the riders attached. Giving his supporters just enough reason to think he is pushing back against the rich. This will inevitably be something anyone with a vaguely competent accountant and tax attorney can slip out of paying. Its actually very difficult to create tax laws that the wealthy dont maneuver out of paying. How many things has Trump suggested in passing that never actually get followed up on and quietly die? This is Trump throwing things at the wall to see what sticks and while the left would like it this will just die with the right ignoring it. welcome to a fun show just to show that he is being fair to MAGA and then we all know wink wink Republican senators will not pass that anyways. It takes away the inane talking points of when the current tax rates are made permanent that these are just tax cuts for the rich. Not only will keep your current 5% lower tax rate but the wealthy will get taxed at a higher rate. The actual revenue amount is minimal but good luck at trying to use that in the midterms. As for the democratic response they will of course keep saying taxing the rich more and you less is still just a tax cut for the rich. It’s an income tax hike. People who are that wealthy generally don’t make their money from a paycheck. So it’s pointless. The catch is that this is income tax and wealthy people dont have income they have capital gains. Theyre taxed differently. Today Trump has changed his mind hes not in favor of increasing taxes on the rich. The problem with even a TINY tax increase for the RICH which I and all others would graciously in order to help the lower and middle income workers is that the Radical Left Democrat Lunatics would go around screaming Read my lips Trump said. Owning the libs is more important and Trump wont give them a chance to say they were right. So that is the catch Trump thinks the Democrats might gain some talking points. Look for another record deficit and anemic growth just like the last time Trump was in office. Except this time we arent even growing GDP shrank in the first quarter. This is so modest a sort of nano burger but even so Grover Norquist would be so furious. It would never pass because so many Republican legislators have signed his pledge never to raise taxes. I guess Mr. Trump will just have to get the credit for trying to raise taxes on the wealthiest while knowing in reality such a proposal will never pass. Ill believe it when I see it. It’s just as meaningless as when Dems propose such policies. This would affect almost nobody apart from professional athletes and Hollywood actors. Rich people often don’t become wealthy through multimillion dollar incomes. Rather they have things like stock options profit sharing capital gains retained earnings reinvested in business assets etc. that are not reported as earned income. It’s all the same political theatre whereby politicians pretend that they are tackling income inequality while they enrich their connected friends. Can we tax their unrealized gains so when they open infinite lines of credit against their assets we can get some tax revenue? 39.6% is still very low and Trump is likely going to get support from many very wealthy backers because hes also trying to reduce the capital gains taxes which impact them far more than marginal income tax rates. All I know is forst the guy wants to be authoritarian and now he wants to be communist? He should just make up his mind fucking populists man Were like 10 years on with this ahole and people are still just lapping up his BS. The catch is he will put out a full proposal in 2 weeks. Practically nobody earns that much in wages... Its a feel good announcement that will impact a minuscule fraction of the population. And the oligarchs that support project 2025 know that it wont impact them for this reason. Its just another way to trick us... What we need to do is make capital gains taxes progressive earning more gets you taxes at a higher rate like income taxes are because the people earning 2.5 mil a year are all getting it from investments not wages. Look at Trumps excuses. 1. HW got smashed for raising taxes after promising not to neglecting to mention the fact that Trump literally did promise new taxes. 2. Democrats will resist it those same Democrats who have been shouting to tax the rich for decades. The catch is that hes completely unserious about it and has no intention of following through. Its Lucy holding the football nothing more. Yeah. It’s fake news. I propose this but demand my party reject it. Especially the owners of corporations must never have to pay taxes.” The wealthy have tax avoidance strategies so they now have a heads up. Most wealthy people take out loans against their assets. Income tax is meaningless to the wealthy. That’s my assumption until I see the actual legislation. This is a fail safe. If they vote against it trump can run ads saying yup in ‘25 AOC voted AGAINST a bill that was going to tax the rich more. Plus she was at the met gala” lose lose for the dems you either support trump or be anti constituent Ill believe it when it is law. He breaks promises and very handy with bait switch distract... Is he doing this because his tariff plans fell through Did they? and he’s backed against the wall by the everincreasing national debt Does either party honestly give an honest single shit about the national debt? **Recency Bias** *A cognitive bias where recent information is given more weight than earlier information. It affects memory decisionmaking and judgment. People often mistake what’s most recent for what’s most important or true.* This is consistent with trumps proposal to eliminate all income taxes for those earning less than $150k or roughly 90% of taxpayers. They make up about 2025% of the total income taxes. The only way to do that is to cut spending and increase taxes elsewhere. A marginal increase in the top earners is a way to do that. It’s worth noting that a marginal increase at the top bracket can still be an overall decrease in taxes for some top earners if the lower tiers are all taken down to zero. So why is Trump proposing a tax hike on the rich? The deficit is ballooning under the current plan. This reduces it somewhat. Also Trump is a populist and this mostly targets elites. Assuming that Republicans always lower taxes and Democrats always raise them is an oversimplification. Of course one easy example is Trumps tariffs which are effectively a tax increase. In his first term he limited the SALT deduction to target wealthy taxpayers. How do you think the Democrats will respond? With more increases. This increase just brings those taxpayers back to the pre2017 rate and Democrats were already pushing for higher rates back then. It’s ridiculous that we’re still dealing with the world where individuals and their rights when it comes to capital and to money and to profits and wealth accumulation trumps the entire world. Absolutely ridiculous that our laws are set up in a way to protect those folks over the 99.999% of the rest of the planet. A very fucked society indeed The catch is the richest don’t have income they have assets that appreciate that they then take loans out against. They pay no taxes. I think the catch is very few people are getting that kind of money as _income_. Most people worth a few million dollars are getting it off assets not payroll. This is effectively a noop on the tax code even if it does pass which it wont. I’m honestly shocked he’s proposing it because both he and conservatives are vociferously opposed to taxing the wealthy and work hard to reduce taxes on rich people. Trump sucks but I’m all for it if there’s no catch. Not sure why he is actually suggesting it unless he’s facing the reality that tariffs won’t be able to fund government expenditures. The deficit is most likely going to skyrocket under Trump again so I guess it’s a good thing he’s doing this. Millionaires do not usually pay income tax . They take share dividends loans from their companies as compensation near zero rates of course They are lowering capital gains which is how billionaires make money. Not to mention tax rate and effective tax rate are two different things. Also they gutted the irs so who’s to force anyone to pay anyway. It’s fun watching the mental gymnastics that leftists have to go through to oppose this Post 1 When you cook at home do you usually make American cuisine or a foreign cuisine? How about when you go out to eat? Curious because younger people in my home country tend to cook foreign cuisine and eat local cuisine when eating out while it is the opposite with my wifes country. We live in USA now but in a very immigrant heavy area so its a little hard to tell. We have many American friends but they are all first generation with immigrant parents. Both. It depends on what I want to eat. We don’t really think of it in terms of foreign” or American” we just decide we want pasta or stir fry for dinner. This country is so diverse that an argument can be made that its ALL American. Pizza tacos General Tsos chicken schnitzel French fries...ok now Im hungry. Theres food I know how to make and food I dont. I dont really think in terms or this or that cuisine and even if I did someone would drop by to inform me that actually that isnt American cuisine anyway. What is American cuisine and what is foreign? I’m not sure. As an American I made hamburgers yesterday spaghetti tonight stir fry this week and sauerkraut with kielbasa next. Not to mention just ordering a pizza when I don’t feel like cooking. I either make American food from my culture or Amicanized food from another culture. Is it foreign if it’s completely reimagined by Americans? Is it foreign if it’s from an origin country of one or more of your ancestors? Is it foreign if you grew up eating it? Whatever I’m in the mood for. I’ll make burgers and fries on grill one night than a curry the next. See I got sausages bakers and onions make bangers and mash the next. Next day fuck it let’s do white trash and do hot dogs and mac n cheese. Same with going out. One day I want Chinese than one day I want McDonald’s. Just depends what my stomach says I do a lot of Asian and Mexican more than anything else. By Asian I do Indian Chinese Thai and Korean. My family in the US goes back to the Mayflower and the 1600s. i throw stuff together and hope its edible People from all over the world settled in the US. Most of the stuff I make isnt American or really any other specific country or Americanized version of something from 200 200 1000 years ago mostly european or from the Americas. Pizza pasta roasted chicken steak on the grill salads chili chicken soup burgers breads tacos burritos. Does it really count as foreign food when it is an Americanized version of it? Generally I want to go out to eat to get something I can’t make at home. At home I cook a variety of cuisines I make Americanized versions of a bunch of different cuisines. Like Ill do a stirfry as a quick weeknight dinner. It probably doesnt even approach authenticity but it gets the job done. Same goes for my ramen or tacos or shepherds pie. TBH I am not sure how to draw a line between whats American and whats foreign. What are some straight up American dishes? I wrote a list of meal ideas yesterday for the week this is whats on it. pumpkin curry sopa de fideo baked veggies with farro and mozzarella some pasta this is exactly what I wrote I am not really sure what Im going to do pizza this is a pretty average week for me you be the judge. I make street tacos at home at least once a week. I also frequently make salads or soup. We cook a lot of Mexican Malaysian German Thai and American” food. Most of the American food that we cook has roots somewhere like Italy or Germany or France or Mexico though 😂 I live in OC CA. There’s a huge asian population here and we have a lot of asian grocery stores so I tend to lean towards cooking asian foods since my parents couldn’t cook for crap and i grew up jealous of asian friends packed lunches. When I go out to eat I usually get mexican food. I can’t cook mexican food right no matter how hard I try. I also enjoy green and mediterranean food which I can cook at home but it’s just not as good as when I eat out. Honestly when I think about it the only american foods I eat are like ingredients by themselves haha. Example cheese and crackers chips sodas raw fruits and veggies. Technically both because its the Americanized version of foreign food. I dont really like American food most the time and genuine foreign recipes/restaurants are hard to find since the Americanized versions do better for sales/search engine analytics here. Depends. What do you call getting some meat or fish from the grocery store grilling or roasting or frying it adding a bunch of steamed and/or sautéed vegetables with some rice or potatoes? Is that American food? Whats your idea of American cuisine thats not from somewhere else? I mean I cook all *Americanized* foods. Like I don’t think an Italian or Mexican would find my pasta or tacos authentic 😂 so I guess it depends on your definition of American food”. Both and both. Ive gotten pretty bold about attempting to cook my hamfisted semiinformed versions of Mexican Sichuan Thai and Indian cuisine with decent to good results for a white boy from Indiana Definitely both. I make a variety of things at home and we eat widely when ordering out as well. I try not to stick to the same type of food too often. So if we’ve had Asian food recently I might make meatloaf or something more American. But I make and eat a lot of pastas. A mix. We like to mix it every night with different protein starch cuisine etc. I cook soul food and then international food. I grew up on soul food and Ghanaian food I cook mostly Chinese Japanese Korean Italian Mexican. When I go out I get Japanese Vietnamese Chinese or Mexican. Im originally from Europe. I usually make basics at home. I am not a chef. I can grill smoke meat and make good pasta. If I go out I want something I can’t make at home. EDIT I make tacos. Lots and lots and lots of tacos. Husband and I are white from families that have lived in America for multiple generations and Id say we eat more nonAmerican food throughout the week regardless of whether its at home or out. A lot of things I cook on a regular basis are East Asian or Middle Eastern and occasionally I make Ethiopian or Nigerian dishes. We try to not go out to eat too often but will prioritize cuisines that we havent tried before or that involve ingredients we dont keep around like SE Asian dishes. Whats American or foreign can be different to different people. Im half mexican so I cook mexican food occasionally but also things like steak which arent necessarily American. If I eat foreign food its usually at a restaurant. Some might consider Mexican food foreign but most Texans probably dont. Im not even sure what counts as american food vs foreign food Im a Vietnamese immigrant who married an American and have an American family. They tend to like American food like chili stew tacos spaghetti etc Theres very little overlap of what they like and what I like Once in a while Ill go out for phỡ it cook something at home but then I have to it like for like 4 days by myself Unlike many countries the United States doesn’t really have a staple dish that forms the basis of our diets nationwide. We are a country of immigrants and they all brought cuisines with them and it all got blended together. It is very difficult to tell what is American cuisine” and what is foreign cuisine”. We do have restaurants that specialize in cuisine from specific countries but it is much more common to see restaurants that specialize in specific types of food sandwiches barbecue pasta pizza steak etc.. Do you have American” restaurants in your country? What dishes are on the menu? Define foreign. ItalianAmerican cuisine has been part of the national American diet since the 1950s. MexicanAmerican went national in the 1960s but has been part of the regional Southwestern diet since forever while ChineseAmerican went national in the 1970s. I grew up eating spaghetti and tacos at home. My kids grew up eating those and stirfry. My fridge always has spaghetti sauce salsa oyster sauce and tom yum paste. Its just what we eat. Define American cuisine. I am old and of Northern European descent. My family is mixed however. All races and many different cultures are represented in my extended family. So I have learned to cook Southeast Asian food Appalachian SpanishCuban West African Mexican and Filipino food. I don’t try to cook the whole gamut of dishes. I started too late for that. But I have one or two dishes that are favorites of various family members so that they can have food at my house that they enjoy. Since they taught me themselves and showed me where to buy the proper ingredients I think they are pleased with my efforts. I have come to enjoy those dishes more than my own culture’s cooking. Next question what is American cuisine? Jk it depends on time. Im Latino Mexican heritage but from the issues of the US that used to be Mexico so whatever you would call that cuisine. Other than that anything cheap and good. Burgers have a time and place but roasted or slow cooked meat with some veggies and Im good. As many student varieties if spice as you can rotate is anyways good. I always have a pot of rice and a carton of eggs ready to go I definitely cook more Americanized dishes at home. But going out to eat it can vary. I live in a large city and can get a variety of cuisine fairly easily. For me its mostly pasta and stir fry. I used to eat a lot of chili red but I havent had any in a while. Currently I’m cooking French sauces. I have no idea where I’ll be a year from now. Meat veg starch. Typical meal. We eat lots of Mexican and pasta. Im not sure I even know what American cuisine” is since a lot of it is fast casual or appropriated/blended Processed frozen Bbq meatloaf and deep fried stuff? Not so much but I make meatloaf from scratch sometimes. I do like it. I do seasoned chicken or a fish with two vegetables. That’s an average dinner. That’s just food not a genre. lol. New American” is a weird awful genre of restaurant cuisine that tries way too hard to be sophisticated. That would be my last choice for a night out. What ever I feel like. My dinners for this week are Dal Italian sausage with peppers burgers and tostadas Mixed bag here but lean more American. When I go out as rare as it is I occasionally go to an Italian or Mexican restaurant but still lean towards American I cook a lot of Italian/Mediterranean and a lot of New Orleans food. I usually get Middle Eastern or maybe a good PoBoy when I go out For American immigrants I’d say more common to cook your home country’s cuisine at home and then eat a combo of american” and other cuisines at restaurants. That’s how we grew up. Mix for both answers It varies. I’ve circumnavigated the globe except for ocean between Johnston Atoll and Dhaka Bangladesh The only thing I don’t really like is in America Mexican restaurants throw this canned white cheese on everything I’m first generation. I cook French Italian Balkan Japanese Chinese Thai Vietnamese Indian and I attempt Ethiopian. I never cook white American Protestant food We do things we like. Tonight I made a salad with barbecued chicken grilled corn tomatoes black beans lettuce and avocado. I guess that’s American? But I’m making TexMex tomorrow and sometimes I cook Indian or Thai or Italian. I doubt any of it is authentic honestly. When we travel we try to find things the locals enjoy. Either/or both at home and when going out. Whatever we feel like. I don’t think we have much of a pattern as far as at home vs eating out or takeout except for maybe sushi pretty much always go out for sushi. Curry burgers nachos bao buns Macncheese with bacon were all made last week. Cuisine tends to converge the more time constrained you are although note that its fairly new for it to be a hard time cap with totally dedicated time as historically it was sneaking acts in here and there with something on the back burner all day once you adjust for preferred heat sources . Americans like ovens so weeknights are similar to other places that like ovens. I don’t even know if what I make has an ethnic origin most of the time. I’ll make a side like rice couscous or roasted vegetables and make chicken thighs or a steak as the protein. I do make a lot of chicken or pork stir fries with Thai or Chinese sauces but if I’m meal prepping my focus is on getting a well rounded meal. I mostly make ItalianAmerican food last night was sausage and peppers. I wish I could make lasagna or baked ziti more often but I have to watch my carbs these days. My dinner tonight was barbecue. A subgenre of American cooking. When I am at home we will make generally steaks burgers barbecue brats Southern cooking or Tex Mex. ... Anything straying from that is really grocery store instruction on the package type food I cook a bit of everything. Currently making Italian chickpea stew made gochujang chicken last night made green curry tofu a bit back. Other nights I just have microwave black beans burgers. My wife is Asian so our meals trend towards that cuisine. But we also like our steaks. When we go out it varies depending on what were in the mood for. Depends what Im hungry for and how ambitious/tired/lazy Im feeling. If its something I can make I will. If its something like Chinese that I suck at making more often than not Ill go to a local takeout place that has awesome food. Personally Im all over the place with it. I know some people that have food routines but I make all sorts of crap when the mood strikes. At home I’m usually trying out different recipes from videos I find online. I’ve made a lot of Indian Middle Eastern Italian or even Korean dishes. When I go out to eat I tend to like to go to places where there’s food I can’t cook at home. Like Vietnamese pho for example. You can make it at home but it takes very long time. Thai food is another one I go out to eat for because there is a temple nearby that has food stalls on the weekends. I also go out for like shawarma since I obviously don’t have one of those spinning things the meat cooks on. I make whatever sounds good at the moment This week’s menu Rosemary balsamic chicken with roasted potato’s Spinach ricotta ravioli with sun dried tomato pesto Steak baked potato Caesar salad Chicken tikka masala with vegetables over rice Mexican restaurant for Friday night dinner Id say all those meals are at least inspired by another country. A lot of Americans eat many different cuisines since we have access to so many yummy foods from immigrants. Sometimes it’s American versions of foreign food sometimes it’s super legit authentic foreign cuisine sometimes it’s food from our own families countries or cultures. I enjoy a large variety so it’s a mix of all these things both in my cooking and going out. The country is such a melting pot there isnt really a distinction of American and foreign food. There is a distinction between traditional foods and Americanized versions. Tonight I made cabbage rolls and veggies. Tomorrow Im making meatloaf mashed potatoes and salad. I have lived here so long I probably dont know the difference anymore. Enchlidas Ramen bowl Lasagna Pizza Spaghetti Caesar Salad my own mixed salad Chicken sandwich Hamburgers Ham and cheese melt on a bagel Sometimes a rice dish I use Asian dressings just a mish mosh. Is this American cuisine? I have to have my green or black tea with dinner. I have several different types of teas on my shelf. It depends on how you define American cuisine. For my dads birthday last night we had beer bratwurst corn on the cob green beans and saurkraut. To me that feels very American. For dinner tonight I made pasta with meat sauce. That also feels like a very American singleperson living alone type of dinner. Technically both of these meals have origins in other cultures but are very American as our culture is a blend of many others. When I cook at home here are my most common meals 1. Stir Fry 2. Spaghetti 3. Fajitas 4. Bangers and Mash 5. Meatloaf 6. Baked fish + veg 7. Fried Rice When I eat out my most common are 1. Salads and Wraps 2. BBQ 3. Mexican 4. Chinese 5. Thai 6. Steakhouse 7. Italian I live in the middle of the country. I like variety but doubt Im very atypical. When we go out to eat it’s usually to get something that isn’t easy to make at home. We will try to mimic favorite dishes from restaurants regardless of the cuisine and make them at home. One advantage of dining out is that we can each get what we want. I dont know if spaghetti and meatballs is considered foreign but I consider it American as much as hot dogs and pizza. Americas a big mix of a lot of cultures so itll vary per family but also probably just be a big mix of all of it. We just feel like eating what we feel like eating or cooking. A bit of everything. This week is Mon turkey sandwiches and pasta salad Tues Mediterranean chicken and pasta Wed air fryer chicken homemade fries and broccoli Thurs steak for my dogs birthday baked potatoes and Brussels sprouts Fri stirFriday Sat sausage and peppers Sun tacos and rice Americanized foreign food. It all depends on what I want cooking at home or eating out There is no ONE factor and EVERYONE has different likes and dislikes in food. The same as in your country. I’ve never actually considered the differentiation. There are a bunch of things I know how to make from various cultures or with specific techniques—American Korean Chinese Mexican Italian Indian. Everything I need to follow a recipe for is foreign” to me. If I’m going out it’s probably for something a little more complex I don’t want to make at home or something new that I’d like to try. We tend to eat what our parents cooked mixed with a few recipes we enjoyed when we were at a friend’s or liked at a restaurant as a generalization. Personally I’m working on moving the family to a Mediterranean diet which is less meats and far more vegetables. The American diet generally favors meat and frozen foods. Veggies and fruits are not subsidized and are taxed much like other foods. Also corn farmingmaze is heavily subsidized so there is an excess of cheap corn and high fructose corn syrup. Generally the American diet is meat starch and a bit of vegetable. Mentally I’m retraining myself an away from starting meal planning with what meat?” But it’s a cultural shift from how I grew up. Mexican Thai Japanese Italian German French Indian Korean puerto rican Cuban. You name it. Not sure what classifies as American but i make Cajun/creole bbq shrimp n grits buffalo wings Nashville hot chicken mac n cheese ny/ct and Detroit style pizza and other Italian American fare I do both. We cook a lot of Asian Mexican and Italian food at home and of course our standard American food. We love to go out for Thai or Indian food or sushi. The only American food we go out for is BBQ and sometimes breakfast. And of course some occasional fast food when on road trips. We very rarely eat American” cuisine whether that’s cooking in or eating out. We’re Asian and our area has a huge Asian population so we typically go for different types of Asian food. I cook more Italian food at home than anything else. Its simple affordable delicious and healthy. I live in Tucson AZ so when I go out to eat more often than not its some of the best Mexican food in the country. We also have a spectacular Bosnian restaurant and quite a few decent restaurants from other cuisines. Whatever I want. I will cook anything that I like to eat. When I go out I try to hit the good restaurants in terms of quality not price and while Im eating I think about what ingredients and spices they used so I can replicate it if I love it. Different parts of the country feature very different foods too. I LOVE Hawaiian food but during my 19 years in FL I didnt find a single Hawaiian restaurant so I learned to do it myself and hosted BBQs. I live alone so I dont vary my cooking quite as much on a daily basis lots of stir fry but when I cook for others anything is possible. I dont really think about the cuisine I make at home but I guess its American/European. Stuff like roast over potatoes cottage pie chilis stews casseroles pasta etc. Out its usually Mexican. The stuff here is so good and so cheap that its crazy to go elsewhere. We used to eat more Asian mostly Japanese and Mexican out and cook American but since we moved to an area with much less restaurant variety it’s skewed our dining out toward American.” Now I make fajitas and ramen and tonkatsu and such at home. The only Italian we out is pizza otherwise we make it at home. A lot of it depends on where you live. Definitely both. Keeping in mind if we make foreign food at home its more than likely Americanized. When I go out to eat Mexican food Americanized is usually the first choice. We cook local and going out is 50/50. I usually make American meals soul food or texmex. The only type of cuisine I don’t make at home is Chinese. It never comes out the same as a restaurant. Saturday I picked up Chinese food from a restaurant for dinner. Last night i grilled a chicken breast with BBQ sauce for me and a leg/thigh with dry Italian dressing seasoning for my wife. She had an Asian Caesar salad and I had a microwaved sweet potato with margarine and brown sugar. We also had homemade Sourdough baguette. Tonight I made tacos with ground turkey. Tomorrow Im grilling pork chops. Wednesday Im having chili and my wife is having pasta. Thursday Im grilling a steak for me and a lamb chop for my wife. Friday were having frozen pizza. This is a typical week. Theres some variation. Here’s my meal list Tacos pasta stir fry curry chicken steak and mashed potatoes hamburgers and fries pork chops dinner salad chicken noodle soup broccoli cheese soup. That’s all I can cook and it’s mostly American All of the above. Made pad thai last week spaghetti for dinner tonight Mexican food on Friday As a 1st Gen American when i cook at home which is every day its usually Peruvian or Irish and American. Sometimes east Asian and Spanish but not that often. As for going out whatever Im feeling like love TexMex italian and Texas Barbecue. Probably split equal? Maybe a little more American than foreign. I do American most then various Asian dishes Italian Mexican then Indian. We eat Italian Chinese Thai Korean Mexican German and traditional American foods on a regular basis at home. We do the same when we go out to eat but like to sample Indian French Spanish and Peruvian on occasion. Whatever is easiest and what I am in the mood. Most American are tired so they aren’t gonna do anything fancy. Maybe steak and side casserole burger stir fry. I usually make top ramen stir fry or whatever I can throw in the air fryer. As everyone says we dont really think in those terms. I get takeout or eat out because I dont feel like cooking or its inconvenient like when traveling or it uses something I dont have at home easily like a deep fryer. What I make at home can be anything from anywhere. We tend to have great access to ingredients and arent afraid to look stuff up on the internet if we dont already have a recipe. But when it comes to the foods supposed origin a lot of it doesnt come originally where you think it did or is more of a fusion as it made its way around the world not really a concern. So I am certainly in the older category but. I took a Uni class and wrote a dissertation to get my butt out of Uni. class was The Geography of Food and Diet I have always espoused the theory that to really understand a culture you need to partake in their cuisine. One of the foods we discussed in class was the meal taken on Ethiopian Injera bread. It took many years but I have made that meal of fermented Injera have a supply of Teff flourand Doro Wat et al. for friends. I have a Mongolian Hot Pot and made that quite often. Have a Tajine and used it often even before we visited Morocco. Ethnic foods are important to my understanding of the world. Yes and yes I like all cuisines but I am only average at cooking. So what I will usually do or try to do is eat 1000 calories a day and then once a week I can go to a buffet and stuff myself. My favorite is Indian cuisine. Unfortunately there arent many buffet options that arent chinese around me. Cincinnati and Dayton. I make Thai food in the wok about twice a week. Occasionally I will switch to a gochujang or fermented black bean type sauce instead of thai sauces. Use my cast iron or enamel dutch oven once a week braised thighs or some other meat with a pan sauce. Spaghetti is pretty common too sometimes jar sauce or Ill do fresh tomatoes basil pine nuts. Also use the BBQ in the summer Kalbi ribs burgers drumsticks sausage etc. My mothers side of the family is of Mexican descent. We like to make a lot of Mexican style food. But we just call it food. I usually make Asian cuisine as I’m a vegetarian and Asian cuisine has more options it’s not as meat based. It didn’t click until the last 6 months despite being a vegetarian for 14 years why America has such a high rate of colon cancer until recently when I read literature. Truly nothing against people who eat meat. Or I make soups or other dishes that would have meat but I sub a plant based meat. I make protein the most important component then grains then fruit/veggie then dairy. I follow a meal plan and have for a few year working with about 5 dietitians 🤷🏼‍♀️. When I go to a restaurant I tend to order things I dont want to make at home. Maybe it takes a lot of time and effort to make it properly is really messy or takes specialised equipment. Or maybe its just that no one else in my family likes it or cant eat it allergies. What is American cuisine? American and Americanized. I dont think were hung up on authentic quisine. A **lot** of foreign” cuisines have become American cuisine. Here’s a typical week of dinners for my house Pasta + salad Fish or chicken + rice + vegetables Stirfry or noodle dish with chicken and veggies usually with sauces of various Asian origins Sandwich or burger + salad White people Indian night White people taco night Big fancy salad + small side of fries my favorite meal Both. Rarely get take out Even more rare we go out I made scrambled eggs with Pillsbury crescent rolls with peanut butter and maple syrup on the rolls tonight. Eggs are eggs. I feel like they are American but not uniquely so. I dont think the French will let me get away with calling crescent rolls French but they probably wont let me call them American either peanut butter is pretty American right? But most of my cooking is like that. When we eat out Id say we eat burgers pizza or Mexican food the most. Pizza is Italian obviously but a Sicilian would scoff at the pizza I eat my pizza is very American. Fajitas at a Mexican restaurant I would call Mexican food but it was invented in what is now Texas by people whose descendants still live in Texas and have been Americans for close to 200 years but they are ethnically Mexican. I made fajitas at home yesterday is that American food? What about papusas at a tex mex restaurant its called La Tejana is that Mexican American or Salvadorian? I put American cheese orange chicken grilled red bell peppers Thai chili sauce pineapple and Pace picante sauce in my ramen the other day whats that? I cook both. Probably close to a 11 ratio of American” to foreign”. Just depends can be anything from Red Beans and Rice to chicken tikka masala my wife’s boss gives the seasoning to tacos jambalaya and anything else we feel like making All of the above.. there are just so many choices.. On the few times I have hosted non Americans they wont stop talking about all of the choices.. and the mixing and melding... for example there is a Korean Taco truck in LA that is mind blowingly delicious.. Southwestern egg rolls with black beans and corn. Kim Chi Pizza Authentic schnitzel served with native American fry bread and bernaise.. And on and on and on.. Im a cook by profession so Im always trying something new but interesting to my ADHD brain. Im surprisingly good with sauces. I find it very funny when the white girl mecan make authentic salsa Verde carnitas y nopalitos... Or something similar and the rest of the line is surprised... I like spice and I like flavor... What is American cuisine? A lot of these comments seem to think that Europe besides Italy doesn’t have any unique dishes. I am pretty sure sandwiches soups stews meat on a plate are not exclusive to America. The US is such a diverse place that Im not sure what qualifies as American or foreign. In my own household we cook a variety of things pasta pizza thai curries bbq onigiri katsu empanadas burgers stir fry etc. My cookbooks have a range of cuisines but most of the cookbook authors are USborn even if their families are immigrants. I assume theres some Americanization happening in their cookbooks. I have a limited number of items I make. 1. Stir fry specifically with a lot of chicken and broccoli. 2. Chicken rolls masala because its amazing and the local places will make it mild if I order it. 3. Salsa. Roasted peppers garlic onion and a little cilantro? Whats not to love. 4. The occasional steak. Yay for sous vide Ave reverse sear. So based on my commonly cooked items I guess foreign. When I go out I tend towards various forms of Asian then Mexican American then Italian. Italian would be above American but all I have near work is Olive garden which I tend to skip. There are a couple good ones nearby but too far away from home / work to be my go to places. We cook a variety of cuisines at home. When we go out its for things that are too much effort for one family meal fried fish sushi Thai food good pizza with a wood fired crust. Mostly southern U.S. home cooking but also throw in Italian Mexican Hawaiian Chinese and Japanese. When we go out we usually try different restaurants of all different ethnic foods. Predominantly American Mexican Chinese and Italian less so Indian Japanese. Umm I make American food but probably not what foreigners think of American food I don’t make fast food I make traditional American food like trail food or just a meat and two sides I eat a lot of seafood boils because I live in the south by the ocean Lots of Indian Southeast Asian Mexican and Mediterranean food for me. Like half the time it’s tacos I make all sorts of different types of foods. In the past week I have made Italian Thai Indian Mexican along with more American type dishes. Yes. All of it. Foreign cuisine is American cuisine. What’s american food? Pasta is Italian. So is pizza for that matter even if we made it our own. Same with hamburger and hotdog even being German but we made those our own. But lets say American is hotdogs and hamburgers. Very few Americans eat that every day. I cook Mexican and oyakodon chicken egg rice bowl most days. Hamburgers are like once every couple months. Ya…I cook Mexican Italian Japanese and sometimes something random if I get a good recipe. May American home cooking is always breakfast along with fish bbq most beef dishes. When we eat out it depends on what’s available that is good. No correlation or difference in home and out I make food. Common universal ingredients Everything! We’ve made Mexican BBQ Italian pasta Hawaiian in the past week Asian stir fry Were close to 60 years old now cook at home 95% of the time and whats on the menu could be any of the following casual American burgers steaks seafood etc. Italian Greek Japanese Thai Vietnamese Korean Chinese Indian Ethiopian Hungarian German French Mexican or....a bunch of other things. We have acccess to basically all of the worlds foods and recipes are free. Im cooking pork carnitas right now. Last night we had a dish of pasta with artichoke hearts lemon kalamata olives and feta. Im thawing ground bison for burgers tomorrow. Friday well have ahi tuna poke. Thats a pretty typical week for us. We dont go out much post COVID but when we do its usually for something we cant make at home or that requires a lot more work than Im willing to do. Or for a special evening to celebrate. Maybe once a month these days. No fast food ever. I make mostly hamburger helper type of food. Hardly ever eat at restaurants costs too much. I’d say I make a little bit of American” cuisine at home but mostly I make either American fusion cuisine versions of other cultures’ foods that are not quite authentic or reasonably authentic dishes from other cultures. I do a lot of creating my own recipes based on other dishes according to my own taste and inseason ingredients. Eating out it is almost always another culture’s cuisine because I want something I can’t replicate at home. All of the above! 😋 Its pretty rare for an American to look at food like that. Tonight I made Beef Bourguignon and the ethnicity of the cuisine never crossed my mind. Here’s the most common dinners we cook venison meatloaf venison cheeseburgers tuna melts venison or Bear chili venison or bear bolognese Mexican shrimp cocktail tacos bear Guinness stew venison barbacoa Peruvian Chicken phad thai birria stir fry chicken Sag pizza. So in my family it’s weird. I’m a white guy married to an Asian man. I cook Asian he barbecues. He’s cooking tonight so we’re having barbecue chicken. I tend to eat fish 45 nights a week at home and since its just me I keep it fairly simple air fryer blackened things like that. Do my ethnic dining when I take myself out on weekends. Dinner tonight for me is a bunch of steamed broccoli and cauliflower with some old bay rice and popcorn. Idk what you call that besides ✨️Girl Dinner✨️ Tomorrow Im making a pot of veganized Ukrainian borscht. Its kinda whatever fits the mood. I typically make Asian Indian or American at home. I cook American food at home. I usually make whatever my parents and grandparents used to make but with more modern appliances than what they had. I have no idea how to cook foreign cuisine. I can kinda figure out Mexican food but if its any kind of Asian food the restaurant will make it better than I can. There is a Thai place near is that is amazing but I have no idea what goes into the sauce for pad thai. I have tried making it at home but ultimately bought sauce in a jar and mixed in some peanut butter. Im never going to make it as good as the Thai lady who owns that restaurant. It really depends on what I want to eat and what food I have on hand. However I really enjoy cooking and trying new cuisine so Im much more apt to cook nonAmerican meals at home and try them when out so I can then learn to cook the dish at home if possible. I cant afford to travel so food is how I try to connect with the rest of the world. I don’t know what is really considered American” food. I feel like I do 50/50 when I cook. When I eat out it’s usually not American unless it’s fast food. If I’m sitting down to eat somewhere I want something I can’t or don’t generally make at home. My favorite cookbook is from the 1960’s and has recipes from the best restaurants around the world during that time. Most of my cookbooks tend to lean more toward authentic recipes from different regions. I cook a lot of Asian food Cajun food Mediterranean food etc as well as what I would consider American” food like chili beef stew Mac and cheese pulled pork. When we go out sushi is usually the first choice but sometimes it for something like prime rib or southern BBQ. Thankfully America is a melting pot. I have grown to love multiple different Asian cuisines Italian AmericanBBQ Mexican Texmex and Indian. I cook a mix of all of them. At home I cook the southern foods I grew up eating with my family. I NEVER go out to eat those foods because they are never prepared well in restaurants and some never even show up on a menu up here. Im talking about things like rice and gravy south Louisiana style smothered chicken field peas and rice okra stew etc. When I go out it is usually for good tacos cantonese/szechuan Ethiopian or Vietnamese. The foreign cuisines I tend to cook at home are certain italian dishes some French homecooking classics and some Greek vegetable and bean dishes. A lot of what I cook is weird fusion shit which is kinda the epitome of American cuisine. We do both whenever we want to depending on our homes background. Im a white girl but I love the flavors of Asian Sauces with roast chicken or a panfried steak. And I would kill to have Korean BBQ. Both. Gotta mix it up! Define foreign... Cause unless Im eating American Indian food I think its all foreign. Like is spaghetti foreign? Same for going out to eat. Yes If I’m cooking it’s something quick and easy like pasta soup chilli etc. if I’m eating out it’s whatever I feel like. Quesadillas Depends on the day/night for me. I like some good authentic Asian foods at times so Ill go gather the ingredients for a good stir fry on a wok or some good seafood recipes I have a BiL from China who has taught me a few things or Ill make some good German recipes from my Dads side of the family. my grandmother kept her familys recipes handed down and cooked German food all the time when Dad was growing up so hes remembered and passed on a lot of good stuff. I’m willing to try any ethnic cuisine and I am over 60! Now the way I grew up it was meat/chicken/fish potatoes or other starch and a salad or other cooked veggie occasional spaghetti or pizza and occasional Polish dishes like pierogies. We ate out at a sitdown restaurant maybe twice a year and never had fast food for dinner with the exception of KFC about once a year. My own kids had lots more variety like couscous hummus spanakopita rice dishes from everywhere Thai and other Asian noodle stirfry dishes etc. Now that they are adults they’ve introduced me to Vietnamese Colombian and other interesting cuisines that I never cooked or tried in restaurants. We truly are a nation of immigrants and most people I know are open minded about anything that looks and smells tasty. Im Puerto Rican so rice every day can eat it with anything. I make that kind of food sometimes I really like cooking with Korean and Chinese ingredients too. I like making Thai Curry its really easy since I can get good paste at the Asian grocery store. I keep it simple for steak or some porkchops though thats usually when I say Id just cook American Both. My daughter and I take turns cooking dinner and over the last few nights weve had Thai coconut curry palak paneer and pizza. Last time we ordered food it was veggie burgers and fries. We both cook food from all over the world and we eat food from all over when we dine out. Tonight I cooked Thai coconut chicken tacos for dinner. Wednesday I’m making the midwestern delicacy known as a horse shoe. I’ve also got a Niçoise salad on the menu a tofu chili crisp grain bowl and a veg and sausage sheet pan dinner in the next several days. On Friday we’re getting ramen with friends. Some of our local goto restaurants include Thai/ Laotian Taiwanese Mexican Venezuelan Indian and plain old pizza. It really just depends on what we want but my household isn’t a strict meat and potatoes household. It surprises many many people. But as a skilled home cook I can make food across all ethnicities and cuisines. I season well. I can make pasta and then cut and shape different styles. Ive gone so far as making hamburger buns for homemade burger night. Authentic lasagna with white sauce Bolognese Roasts Fish made in different ways and different types of fish. Curries All types of soups and stews In summer I often opt to cook our protein outside on the grill or in a way that doesnt heat up the house. Then a nice cold salad or fruit or some nice rice. I know a lot of people like myself and I wouldnt even exactly know what an American dinner would be. Mostly I stick to my own culture. I’ve always grown up in large diverse cities. So according to my mood I eat different cuisines. I also make them at home… as I have access to many types of grocery store. I love heat so I tend to look for spicy food. I’m not a big fan of pasta or pizza. Not big on meat. Gpa was farmer who instilled in us healthy eating. So my plate is half filled with veggies + quarter beans and sometimes a grain. Winter it’s soup. Summer is salads. Post 2 How common is it for young people 1622 to own a car? Im a 19 year old student in the Netherlands and almost no one my age owns a car. People use public transport or borrow their parents car. In movies and on social media a lot of American high schoolers/ students seem to own a car is this similar irl? Also are they usually able to pay for gas and vehicle taxes themselves or do their parents support them? I drive the high school car”. The oldest child in high school gets stewardship but it passes down as siblings go off to college I owned a car before I had a license 15 years old. In suburbia / rural areas VERY common. Often just a hand me down from their parents or a used one. But common indeed. As for who pays. Mixed bag. My son pays for gas and pays pretty much what our insurance increased by. Registration is like $60 a year he pays that too. There are no other yearly taxes He had a hand me down my late fathers car which was totaled while parked in front of my house by a drunk driver. We used the insurance money to buy him a newer but still used car. Extremely common. Who pays for what parts of the car is variable largely based on a number of factors ability both financial and otherwise of parents to help mostly. A common arrangement where I grew up and was that age mostly the high school years was that the kid would pay for their gas and the parents would pay fully or help out at least with insurance. Not ubiquitous but more common than you think. I do think the numbers used to be higher though. Less teens and young adults are driving these days compared to their total population. Having access to one is fairly common but owning one is less. Unless they’re buying it with cash outright most kids don’t necessarily own the vehicle due to not having a credit score. It usually belongs to the parents and the kid is allowed to drive it. People have no concept of how big and vast and different America is. Your country fits into my state 16 times. This is so dependent on location. Where I grew up in a small town in Texas it would be very normal. It’s going to be different in bigger cities with public transportation. Yes its fairly common but certainly not universal for people of that age to have a car. Its almost never a new car that only happens in pretty affluent families but an old used wellworn car as a first car for someone that age is fairly common. The parents may provide some support but since they have a car and being old enough to have a drivers license means being old enough to work theres often an expectation that theyll get a parttime job to pay for the insurance registration and gas themselves. My parents bought one for me and my siblings to use. We payed for gas they handled the rest Pretty much a necessity in my area. I dont think I knew anyone that didnt have their own car by the time they finished high school. I never owned” a car as a teen. I had a car that I frequently used that belonged to my parents. Very common my dad bought me a car at 16 to drive to school/work. We even had our own parking lot! We don’t have public transport options like yall do so it’s more out of necessity. I had to pay insurance/gas on it though hence the job! Pretty difficult to have a job in the US without a car. Incredibly common in most of the country a car is needed to get anywhere. Also with the drinking age being 21 people can’t go out drinking yet and are able to put that money towards a car. I also think there are less barriers to entry for Americans to purchase a car. Theres no one answer. America is a big place and every city has different socioeconomic factors. I currently live in NYC where very few ADULTS own cars let alone young people. I grew up in an average though affluent suburb of a normal US city. I shared my first car with my sister when I was 18.. We went to the same college and so we shared a car my freshman year. That said she had had 2 cars before that during high school. I did not have a car in high school but plenty of other students at my school did. 20%? totally guessing. Im sure other schools had more and others had less. So what do you consider common? In college when I was sharing with my sister a bunch of fellow freshmen 18 years old also had cars. Much more common at that point college than in high school. Maybe 60%. That was in the early 90s. Things have likely changed since. I think back to a quote from a 1986 movie I asked for a car I got a computer. Hows that for being born under a bad sign. Ironically this characters sister did have a car. In most of the country its very common. Taxes arent all that expensive and gas is much cheaper in the US. The really significant cost is insurance which can be a few thousand dollars per year for a young driver in an urban area. Its a mixed bag of whether parents help or not typically more affluent families will help their kids pay vehicle expenses. Pretty common. We’re a car culture. And it’s not just the rich kids who get them. I will wager that these kids have either been _given_ a car or are being _permitted to use_ a car. My 17yearold and I share the use of one of our family cars. If we both want to go somewhere at the same time one of us has to find another solution walk subway bike Uber. There is no sense in which she owns a car. And when I was a teen I was very much in the _allowed to use_ category with lots of restrictions. I had to ask for it and sometimes the answer was simply no. Its pretty common. Ive owned my truck since I was 20. It’s pretty normal to give your kids a beater car something older that’s only worth a couple grand My dad bought me my first car. It was $600 in 2005 and honestly that was over paying for it. But my dad got me with the sure I’ll buy your first car” gag. It was from the salvage yard but still ran. Barely. Neither door in the front seat opened I had to get in from the back seat the sunroof was stuck open the 1st weekend I had it and I had to wedge some plywood in the ceiling window when it rained and I had to check and top off my oil and antifreeze every 2448 hours if I wanted it to start and my car literally could not drive faster than 50mph. It was funny and also taught me how to check/change my oil wiper fluid antifreeze change all 4 tires and humbled my 15 year old ass. Depends on where you live. It is more common where there is no public transportation. My grandfather gave me an old shitbox when I was 17. It is really hard for us to move around and have jobs without a car as we dont have the transport situation you do. I fyou dont live in one of a handful of major cities with good public transportation you cant get around so your parents would have to drive you around everywhere and they dont want that so they help if they can. Not unusual at all but depends on where you live. In high school ages 1618 most people dont own their own cars but some definitely do and it would not be surprising to see. Many people that age will borrow a car from their parents when they need/want to. Id say a high schooler with a drivers license very likely has access to a car even if they dont own one. Once people go to college it becomes much more varied depending on where you go to school urban vs rural campus living on campus vs commuting living close to home vs across the country taking loans vs no loans. Whether they pay for gas and maintenance themselves also varies. Theres no consistent way this is normally handled and just depends on the family. More affluent parents are more likely to cover all costs for their kids but its definitely not a given. Most suburban high schools have student parking lots. My sons school charges a yearly fee on a firstcomefirstserved basis. They sell out quickly. Actually owning it? No The parents owning an extra car for the kids? Yes I cant think of anyone I know that didnt have a car by the age of 22. But Im from rural Ohio so my experience is certainly different from someone who lives in a city. Ive had a car since I was 16. My school was 45 minutes away and we didnt have bussing. My parents paid for insurance and gas in high school. They paid for insurance and my parking pass in college. Where Im from in NY everyone has a car. Even if youre poor you get your license and a beater car. In suburban/rural areas very. In city areas with public transportation way less so. In suburban rural areas either youre driving yourself or friends/parents are driving you. Lots of parents buy or help their kids buy cars so they dont have to drive them everywhere. Ballpark I’d say 6070% of 1618 year olds have cars and 8090% of 1922 year olds Hmm... Common but not uniformly. Its like asking how common is it for a person to be male? Very but if you walk into a womens hair salon you shouldnt be surprised that nobody there is male. I got my first car at 23 when I got a job that required it a lot of my peers had one at 17. Both are totally normal here. It varies greatly depending on the area. Where my brother and his family lives middle of the country its incredibly common because there isnt any real public transportation options. Where I live there is excellent public transportation and its far less common. A lot of families here mine included have a vehicle available for a teen to use but its not the teens car for instance my husband and I both have cars but we rarely both use them so one was almost always available for one of our teens to use especially evenings and weekends. Parking is difficult here and a lot of schools dont have the space for students to park or they have agreements with the neighborhoods that dont allow for students to drive to school. Traffic is also bad here so driving is quite often a lot slower than taking public transportation. Very common. I got my granddads old jeep which was handed down first to my cousin then my other cousin then my sister and I. I was expected to pay for gas and oil changes and other expenses around the car. All of my friends also got cars that were either second generation past down from siblings/ relatives or an old used car they had saved up for. I didn’t know anyone whose family bought them a new car but I’m sure there’s wealthy families out there that do Extremely common to the point it’s considered the norm usually for people that age their parents got it for them especially if they are in high school I dont own a car however my parents are giving me their 2020 Nissan Rogue so that I can have a car when I go to college. Itll still be under their name though. I drive the car they own the title My kids have a shared student car. Thats fairly common in suburban areas with less mass transit. In the cities its less common. When I was 16 my dad bought a new car for himself and I got to use his old car. The car was still registered to him but it was for my own personal use until I was able to buy my own car. 1617 it’s hit or miss 1821 it’s more common 22+ most people do unless you live in a walkable city or one with lots of reliable public transportation which doesn’t apply to much of the US. As for who pays that’s highly dependent on the family. Some parents pay for all some or none. Often a 16th birthday present. Sometimes handmedown moms car. Most kids in my part of the country learn to drive at 14 or 15 and then take drivers education at 15 to get their restricted license that allows them to drive to school work errands etc alone or with immediate family members in the vehicle. After a year of restricted driving they can have the restriction removed. At that point most kids at least gain some access to one of the family vehicles. I have two high school aged kids right now and they share access to our extra vehicle. If we didnt have an extra vehicle we would have needed to purchase one. My wife and I cover the gas for going to and forth to school but anything else they want to do we expect them to use allowance or get money from the friends who the ride around with to cover it. The car itself is paid off and my wife and I cover the insurance which is a few hundred dollars per month. Southern California Id say about 50% of people that age drive. Other areas outside of urban southern CA its almost 100% In cities with good public transport its much less common than in more suburban or rural areas. I checked some stats and in that age range the percent of car ownership appears to be in the single digits. But a high percent would also be living at home and would have access to a car and most would have a license I would guess. My impression is movie portrayals over represent young people owning cars. The rates would depend greatly on the living environment and economic level of the individuals which vary widely across the country. Relatively common. Something to think about which you clearly havent is you live in one of the most densely populated countries in the world. Everything is close and transit is everywhere. Similarly someone growing up in NYC is just as unlikely as you to own a car. A lot of the time its either the parents paying for a new car technically theirs borrowing a parents/siblings car or just simply having a car that hasnt been used in a long time by family members that was given to them. Its uncommon for young people nowadays to actually buy a car themselves with how high prices have been. Pretty common. Its usually a parents old car and its only so you can help run errands and ferry younger siblings. i started working at 22 and i needed a car for that on account of the yknow. 75km commute. i was borrowing my moms for a few months but got my own within the year Its pretty common. But so is borrowing your parents. When I was young I used my moms old car. Own a car? For me I didn’t own one till I was in Military service and needed a vehicle. But most of us have old cars our parents handed down. Mine was a 1991 Nissan Sentra SE. it was paid off and tired by 1999 when my mother gave it to me. But I didn’t buy it. I bought a car at 20 with money I had saved from odd jobs/working as a cashier for years. Me and my siblings all got a starter car on our 16th birthdays the ones they figured we would wreck/ruin. Then we got one when we graduated high school as a graduation gift. We all purchased our own cars after we graduated college and needed a new one. I was 20 by the time I bought my first car but I used a bicycle or a moped or borrowed my dads car to get around before then. My first car was an old at the time 25 years old Toyota Camry I bought off Craigslist for $340 back when your average used car would run you about two grand like a decade ago. Nowadays I think its way less common in part because used cars are WAY more expensive postCOVID. Your average running reliable used car today would be closer to $5000 which is a LOT harder to save up for in a single summer as a teenager. It definitely depends on where youblive and how much money you have but generally speaking I would say its very common. Very common for my area. Consider that the US is 220 times as large of an area as the Netherlands. The population density is also extremely skewed comparing the two countries with the Netherlands having 544 people per square kilometer versus the US having under 37. The US is large and spread out. Public transportation isn’t as common as it is in Europe. We need cars here to get around. I got a hand me down old family car to drive when I was 16. My high school was 15 miles from our house with no public transportation. It would have been difficult to do any extra curricular activities football or track without a vehicle. My parents covered insurance and gas as long as I was still in school. I took over once I was in college and working full time. Most kids who drive are driving one of their parent’s cars or saved up for a very used one often well passed what would usually be considered its useful life. We need cars because we often live further apart than many people in Europe and by the kids being able to drive themselves it relieves the parents of needing to drive kids around. That often turns into a responsibility of the older sibling too. For example when I was a freshman in HS my sister was a senior. She had my mom’s old Camry and she drove us to school and we both had after school activities so she had to drive me home. When I could drive being the youngest I had to go to the grocery store using my parents card Which meant my mom didn’t have to. Very common where I live. When I was a teenager it was extremely rare to not have a car. Even the poor kids had a $500 car that would run and get them around town. I bought my first car at 16. Before that I had a motorcycle. I grew up in a small town with no public transportation. A car wasn’t an absolute necessity but it gave a way to get around without relying on someone else who had a car. Depends on the area where I grew up it is common for teens to get cars at 1618 years old. But I live in a suburb without public transportation. I had access to one of my dad’s cars that I could use for work school or going out in high school. I bought my first car in my name at 19yo. In America unless you live in a big city with reliable public transportation a car is almost a necessity. Most kids use the family car but if you are wealthy the parents buy you one. I got an ugly unreliable car from my parents but that soon rusted out and gave up the ghost and I got my grandmother’s even older car but it had an awesome metallic green paint job and it was in perfect running and cosmetic condition. I drove that for five years until I bought my own. I dont know a single person that doesnt own at least 1 car. I own 3. Normal enough for high schools to provide student parking spaces. My folks bought what wound up being my first car when I was 14. I babysat did farm work sewed clothes cleaned houses and then got my first job to cover the insurance and getting it running. I wish I still had that car. I grew up with cars my dad was a car guy. Hed buy a wreck fix it up give it to my mom who would drive it for a few years and then I would get it. My sister would get it after me. I had to start driving as soon as I could legally do so. America has a lot of space and nowhere is really dense enough to get by without one. Most kids dont own their car and are just borrowing one their parents bought for them to use. When I was that age I had a car. I called it my car but it actually belonged to my father. I drove it to school most of the time because he took a train to work and didnt need it during the day. By the time I was 18 or so I bought my first car. It was about ten years old and had been in a significant accident and I probably got a pretty significant discount because I bought it from my uncle. I didnt own a new car until I was married and well into my 20s. What you should understand is that a lot of places in the United States are very carcentric... it would be very difficult for a lot of younger people to get to/from school or work without access to a car or someone to drive them all the time. Common and necessary in a lot of places. Unless you live in a city there is no other way to get to work or afterschool activities I got my car at 15 before I got my license. My folks paid for insurance and I paid for everything else because I had a job. Most of my friends had a car of their own. My folks gave my sister a car and paid for gas insurance and maintenance because my sister did not have a job. I hate driving so when I could I sold my suv and bought my stepdaughter a car. I work from home and she commutes to school and work I had a car of my own” at 16 but my parents bought it so they wouldn’t have to drive me 11 miles each way to school and back every day. I was gifted a car when I was 16 but it was bittersweet—my grandfather had died and my grandmother didn’t need two cars. I was the only grandchild anywhere near driving age so she very generously gave it to me. If you live outside of a big city or college town it’s a requirement to do anything. Pretty common. A good chunk of young students from my college had their own cars. I didn’t get my first car until I was 22 and graduated. We dont truly own a car but we do have access to one once were able to drive one. Usually the cars belong to our parents. I should know this because when I went to college I didnt own a car it was my mothers that I drove around but I did have access to a car I could drive. The US is a big country about 4500km from coast to coast. A lot of us live in rural areas where having access to a vehicle is paramount. Public transportation is lacking or non existant in a lot of rural areas. My three oldest had jobs so they bought their own vehicles. The fourth has a gimpy leg so he just borrowed my car until it became his car by default. Hes on his way to a job interview even as we speak. Very common. The few exceptions might be kids who live in a dense urban area like New York City but the majority of teenagers have cars because the majority of Americans have cars. I should also point out that most Europeans VASTLY underestimate the size of the United States. The US is roughly about the same size as all of Europe minus Russia. Thats Norway down to Greece and Ukraine across to Portugal. Whats crazier is that aside from some tiny island nations Cuba Jamaica the entirety of North America is just the US Canada and Mexico. All three of those countries are MASSIVE compared to an average European nation. Like the UK is the size of Michigan which is a fairly midsize state. At 16 having a car is an indication that either your parents have money you worked part time or you got lucky with a handmedown. By 22 its basically an obligation outside of a couple cities Most students under the age of 18 in the USA dont OWN their cars. Their parents own the cars. I dont know that its even legal in most states its not legal in Ohio for someone under 18 to own a car with their own name on the title. I was 19 when I bought my first car on my own though. I took the loan in my own name without a cosigner. However I was in the Air Force then with my own paycheck. Before that when I was 1618 I drove cars owned by my parents. We had three cars most of the time so I could drive one and help ferry my younger brothers around but my name wasnt on any of those car titles. Some students help to pay for a familys car insurance if theyre driving a family parentowned car but probably most dont. Gas? You learn very quickly to ask your friends to donate money for gas if they want a ride. Hand made sign I saw on a cars glove box once Cash grass or ass. Nobody rides for free. Very In middle and upper middle class suburbia its very common. In my family my mom got a new car and my sister got her old one as a handmedown. She drove herself to school junior and senior year. I was three grades behind her so it worked out that when she went to college I got the car. Id say the vast majority of upper classmen at my high school either drove themselves or carpooled with a friend. A younger sibling typically got a ride to school from the older sibling. The school buses were almost exclusively freshman and sophomores who didnt have a license yet. My high also wasnt that old and had a large sports complex with additional parking so even neighboring older schools or those with less parking more kids would take the bus. I got a car when I turned 16. It wasnt nice but I was happy to have a car. Not uncommon at all I think I was probably around 18 when I got my first car and most learn to drive starting around 16. We are an extremely carcentric society in many places not driving is simply not an option. That said these days my primary means of transportation is either a bicycle or ebike even though I have the option of driving. The ability to commute without a car varies wildly depending on location though. This is a classbased question. Rich kids get new cars from their parents. Really rich kids get really nice new cars. I had a rich friend who was mad at his parents because they only got him a brand new Toyota and not a Jaguar like he wanted. Upper middle class kids get handmedown cars like lets say the parents own a 4 year old Mercedesinstead of selling it and exchanging it they hand it down to their kid. Middle class kids are a range depending on how middle class anything from their parents buying them used cars &amp taking care of the insurance/gas to buying them used cars and having the kid take care of insurance/gas from working this can be very expensive in some states especially insurance. Regular kids blue collar and some working class buy their own used cars through working during the summers and also pay for their own gas and insurance. This was much easier up till Covid when used cars got ridiculously priced. Poor high school kids dont buy cars at all. Like 99% If you are over 18 almost all kids have cars unless their parents are wealthy and just let their kid use the family car all the time. Didnt get mine until college. In my area there isnt any real public transportation. Parents need their own cars to go everywhere. So unless the kid is just borrowing it for the very limited time the parent doesnt need to go anywhere their own car is necessary if the kid is using it regularly going to school work sports ect. Still many teens dont have cars because they are expensive if the families cannot afford it. Own? Lots of them *have* a car. Some of them paid for it themselves but many didnt. We bought our kids a car that bloody well better last them through college and hopefully a few years after. Incredibly common. We bought a beater for the kids and sold it when they had both graduated from college and had their own. One of them got Grandmas after grandma left it running in the garage all night. Fairly common. Outside of cities like New York Boston etc. Americans NEED a car. Were so SO much more spread out than you think. Most of the US doesnt have usable public transportation and we often live further from schools and work than the Dutch. Families that can afford it will buy a car for their teens. Much less so today than when I was a teenager. When I was a teenager if you had a job you could reasonable buy a terrible car for not much money and insure it. Some kids even had parents that would buy them cars. I saw a little of that when I was in college. Fast forward to today my kids would just assume not drive and theyre in their 20s. My eldest hates the thought of owning a car. Cars are more expensive and insurance much more expensive. Thanks to oil subsidies though gas is not much more expensive. All my nephews friends got cars — nice ones too — when they turned 16. All their friends are rich. When I was a teen mid 80s twothirds of my friends had cars at 16. I had an old junker and I’m pretty sure my parents got it for me so they didn’t have to drive me and my brother to school anymore. Town didn’t have buses for high school and it was too far to walk. If not for that I probably wouldn’t have had one. Depends on where you are. Its probably not as common in the middle of the city but in the suburbs and anywhere more rural than that its a fact of life. I got my first car at 15 My kids didn’t own their own cars until they were in their 20’s. We just bought enough family vehicles so there were enough to go around. I dont know a single person at the age of 22 who doesnt own a car. It will depend a lot on where you live and how much money your family has. In New York City even most parents dont own a car because the population is very dense and there is a good train system. In downtown areas of Boston or DC you might have a single car that all driving members of the family share but isnt necessarily used every day. Most of us grew up in suburbia however and driving a car is a necessary part of life. American schooling puts a lot of emphasis on extracurricular activities you dont just go back and forth between home and school you have to get to and from sports practice and competitions music or dance lessons community service projects etc. which are scattered all around the area usually without good public transportation. Dating is almost impossible without a car though since that is in the evening you can sometimes borrow a parents car to go somewhere. The wealthier kids at my school expected and usually got their own car for their 16th birthday. The less welloff often got a handmedown car i.e. their mom or dad got a new car and the teen was allowed to drive the old one. In a few cases there might be a car that siblings had to share. I didnt have a car partly because money was tight but I think mainly because my mom didnt want me to drive and didnt trust my friends and wouldnt sign me up for Uber for Teens. She probably wasnt wrong but it meant she was waking up at 5am to drive me to swim practice and driving an hour so I could attend a conference and staying up till midnight to pick me up from a party. She is a saint but when my sister turned 16 my parents were real quick to get her license squared away. Ive owned a vehicle since I was 15. I still drive it! Teenagers often get hand me down cars from their parents which they use in high school and college. Its fairly common to purchase your first vehicle of your own in your early 20s. Cars are more of a need here than in Europe although I am seeing a rising trend of people in their early 20s still not having their license. unfortunately it heavily effects their economic prospects for the worse a lot of jobs wont even hire you if you dont have access to a car to get to work. I had my car at 15 years old. It wasn’t fancy. A 1991 Mercury Capri convertible. Roof leaked and broke done sometimes but got me to and from school lol I would say that all really depends where you live. Public transit options aren’t as common in the US especially in more rural areas. If you live in a dense city area people will avoid owning a car because they have other options to get around with. Out in rural areas unless you own a car or knew someone who did then you’re you where stuck. I grew up in a more kinda rural area. Where all kids got their license and a car as soon as they could. Now that I lived in congested urban area most kids hold off on it because they can use the local metro service to get around with. I also want to point out. I keep hearing this a lot from people in Europe. They just don’t realize just how large the US is. In the EU you could drive straight for 3 hours and cross through 4 different countries. In the US there’s plenty of places where you could drive straight for 3 hours and still be in the same state! I had a car available to own from my parents at 16. I got my first at 19 when in college from my grandparents. It was a good car. My wife bought hers from her grandparents I think she paid half her parents paid half when she was 15 or 16. Now its our only car. A lot of the US has zero public transportation or limited public transportation. It totally changes the dynamic. It depends on the community the socioeconomic status of the family etc but it’s probably the norm for 1622 year old high school and college kids to have access to a car that is designated for their use or shared use with siblings in middle class and upper middle class rural and suburban America. Less so in the urban core of large cities. Realistically if you don’t own a car in the US by the time you’re 22 unless you live in a big city you’re at a measurable economic and social disadvantage. i drove my moms car during hs but right after hs my sis in laws mom sold me her 90 corolla and i drove that for a while so pretty much had my own car since 17/18 I got my first car at 16 and sold it at 18 when I was moving. Then I think I was without a car for a year or so but got another after around my 21st birthday. I have had one ever since and Im 30 now. 18+ most people have a car unless you live in an urban city with excellent public transit. For 1617 generally your parents technically own the car and you get to use it. Often thats more so you can drive an old junk car and not ruin their nice one. My parents owned it but I drove it! Drove my dads old Honda that we said was mine” but really my dad owned it from 1621. Bought my own car w my own money at 22 and she’s still going strong. I live in a middle class/upper middle class neighorhood and pretty much every teen owns a car ex my neighbors are a family of 4 two of which are teens and they have 4 cars in total Most people i knew when i was in that age bracket had cars but very few actually owned their own it was owned by their parents. 18+ is more likely to own their own though. For a lot of people it’s their first big adult purchase. This is 15 year old anecdotal info though i’m an old man now! Unless you live in a very dense city San Francisco etc virtually everyone will own a car at that age. Its pretty common for a kid to get the old family car when they buy a new one or buy something like 10+ years old when they are teenagers. I had a car when I was 16. It was a $700 USD piece of shit that was slow and had no air conditioning but it was a car. I had to buy new tires for it and I drove it everywhere I could including school work after school and to meet with friends on weekends. I drove a car all throughout high school. I worked most nights after school and on weekends starting at 15 years old. Most of my friends had some varying degree of transport at 16. Some had new or newish vehicles. A lot of us had older pieces of crap. Owned a car since I was 15. Parents got my insurance until I turned 18. All my younger siaters also have cars although one of them is too afraid to drive. Depends on where they live. I got my first car at 14 and spent two years with my dad working on it fixing all the problems and learning how to repair cars before I got my license at 16. But I lived in a place where there was no real public transit. The bus service was really for the next city and we were just the end of the line for a couple of their routes. I once took the bus to the shopping mall just to see what it was like. To do so I had to ride my bicycle 57 miles to the closet bus stop ride the bus for an hour to get to the downtown bus station transfer to the second bus which then took at least another hour to get to the shopping mall where when driving my car that was a 1520 minute drive. But if you live in a city that has things fairly compact and has a better public transit system there are people who have gone their entire lives and not even learned to drive because they didn’t need to. Very common for anyone living outside of a dense urban center which is most of the people. However its really varied what this means and in the age range specified its going to change a lot. While many certainly do I think the majority of 16 year olds either have no car or dont own their car hold the title in their name and dont pay all the expenses to operate it. That used to be more common than it is now and even so its still pretty common today but not the majority. It is true however that whether they own it or not a small majority have access to a car separate from their parents cars. On the other end I think the majority of 22 year olds do own or have a loan without a cosigner and pay all the expenses for their own car. But a large minority of people were still getting help with insurance or if they do own one outright it was purchased with help from someone else. It depends. Rural kids will have some form of vehicle before they can legally operate them purely out of necessity. As a midwestern city kid i had to get one after high school because public transit is so abysmal i couldnt hold a job if i had to use the bus. I work outside the city i live in now but with how our cities are designed and our culture even a bicycle isnt a viable option to get to and from work inside the city. Having a car or a family member or partner with a car is necessary for a functional and flexable adult life in most of the US. small carve outs for New York and Denver really but even in Denver most drive. As for the expenses of owning a vehicle I saved while i worked in Highschool. Then i bought a cheap POS and fixed all the issues and registered it and paid the taxes. Most others my age bought the car but thier parents paid registration plates and taxes for them. I paid for everything because I had no other option but my peers paid for some and had help for others. A road trip with 1822 year olds is usually a destitute commune on wheels disguised as a vacation. Teenagers and college students are more likely to have the use of a familyowned car than to own a car in their own name although some do. Families with several children in this age range may own one kid car that the eldest drives first but that may be left for the use of the younger siblings when the eldest goes to college. I got my first car at 21 my dad paid the insurance for it because he got a family package deal while I finished college but after I moved out on my own I had to pay the insurance for myself. It was hard. There was no public transport available in my hometown whatsoever. There were no buses except the school buses and very few taxis. Everything was spread out and it wasn’t a walkable area. Few sidewalks and lots of busy roads. It is very common in rural and suburban areas....well...own is maybe a strong term. Many older high school students have their own car but many times they are still owned by parents but used almost exclusively by the teen. Other teens buy cars and put them in their name. I have 2 kids getting close to that age and they will likely each get one of our old vehicles a 20 year old SUV and a 2015 minivan. Many parents hand down an old car instead of trading in so their kids have something to drive My best friend in HS 1994 graduation drove a 1976 Chevette that had been passed down from his older brother which was passed by the oldest brother which was handed down from their parents.... Quite common especially in suburbs and rural areas that arent flush with public transportation and miles from school/work/stores. Its a necessity unless you never leave your home or farm. A lot of kids get a beater early and upgrade as funds improve How else would I get to work after school? Walk 13 miles each way in a ditch beside the highway? We have little to no public transportation in the US unless you’re in a city. My commute to work is 25 miles/40km one way it’s not uncommon to have similar commutes to school or wherever. Unfortunately we need vehicles. Pretty common I owned a car at 17 so did most of my siblings. My daughters all had their own cars by 20. Post 3 Would you support a country that willingly wants to become part of the USA? Im not sure if there are any historical or even current examples of this but lets say the citizens of a country voted willingly to become a territory of the USA would you support something like this? I can see this being beneficial for certain countries/regions seeking US military protection or extremely poor countries hoping to better their situation. The US itself also gets to expand its territory. Sounds like a winwin situation. That’s kinda what happened in Texas. American settlers moved to Texas when it was apart of Mexico. They declared independence from Mexico and later petitioned to be annexed by the US. I’m from Puerto Rico and we’ve lived in this limbo for over a century. Our political status is something that is on everyone’s mind on a daily basis and it’s draining to say the least. We are a US territory so we have some benefits as well as responsibilities but we also lack many others. We are naturally born US citizens but we don’t get to vote in presidential elections or get voting representation in Washington DC yet we’re bound by the US Constitution. We don’t pay federal income tax but the U.S. government recoups that money by restricting the financial benefits that the island receives and by heavily taxing all goods and products which are required to arrive in the island on ships from the U.S. mainland making the cost of living much higher than in the states. Our men and women have proudly fought and died in wars as part of the U.S. military since the early 1900’s yet a lot of people in the US mainland don’t recognize us as equal fellow Americans. When you arrive at the San Juan airport from an international flight you’re not greeted at customs and immigration by a sign that says welcome to Puerto Rico. It says welcome to the United States of America” with a big U.S. flag. Long story short it’s a shit show. We’re not an independent country and we’re not a state either. The local political party in favor of the current status has long presented our situation as the best of both worlds” but over the decades it has become evident that it’s not sustainable and the population has gradually shifted towards other political affiliations. There’s still strong support for statehood the current party in power is prostatehood but there’s been a recent increase in support for independence or other alternatives out of frustration for our never ending limbo with the USA. We’ve realized that our status will never change until Washington DC is ready and there’s no interest in their part to do anything about it. Personally I believe that if we’re going to be part of the USA we should be a state with all the benefits and responsibilities that come with it not this half ass thing that we are now. If we can’t be a state then I think that the USA should let us go so that we can carve our own path whatever that may be. No? Maybe? Im not sure. Theres a lot more to the calculus than just expanding territory. If they want US protection they can likely just ask for it its not entirely that simple but still. Most of the countries with US troops have US troops there by request. If those countries had a change of heart and asked that US troops leave then we would withdraw our troops. Now for the main topic. I think that a lot of citizens would take umbrage with a country voting to become a state purely to improve their economic standing. This country as a whole is skeptical and not particularly cheerful to economic migrants as is. Selling the US electorate on integrating an entirely separate country with a significantly lower economic standard would likely be an impossible sell. Trying to bring this theoretical country up to national standards in a variety of sectors would also be enormously expensive and the other 50 states would likely be shouldering a disproportionate amount of the financial burden required to do this. Thats not touching issues with trying to force the square peg of whatever that countrys politics and political parties are like into the round hole of the USs twoparty system nor is it touching any of the more uncomfortable topics like race religion or social norms. So yeah in short most likely not. EDIT expanding/clarifying hopefully ideas Depends on if it made sense or not. Most likely not though. Ask Puerto Rico how they like it There’s a number of countries that already have dollarized economies. I think that would be cool if they wanted to join. **Generally the process for a territory to gain admittance as a state follows this general sequence.** * Congress passes an Enabling Act authorizing a territory to draft a constitution and submit it to Congress. * Congress accepts the constitution or sends it back for revision. * Congress votes to accept the territory as a state. I think it would really depends on the country but probably not. We are big enough and have enough problems as it is we don’t need to be adding more land people and problems. Yeah Puerto Rico and American Smoas or any US territory that doesnt really have the same rights as U.S citizens but are technically U.S citizens. Legally speaking this is what happened to Hawaii. The Republic of Hawaii petitioned to be annexed by the US. . . .now the rest of the story is that a group of American businessmen wanted Hawaii under American jurisdiction because they thought it would be better for business so they arranged a coup and set up a new government there that then petitioned the US to be annexed but legally speaking Hawaii was an independent country in the Pacific that wanted to join the US. It looks like a lot of people are missing one of the keywords here which is would *you* support a country that willingly wants to become part of the USA. I say absolutely as long as willing is legitimate and its not under any type of pressure or duress. I think its also important that the country joining have some connection to the Americas as we are the United States of America. Also willing needs to be defined well. Ex is a 51% vote to join really willing? 66%? Or 75%? Thats above my pay grade to decide but the willingness factor needs to be made very clear by the applying country. In 2025 thats one of the reasons Puerto Rico is still a territory and not a state among many other reasons I know. They had a referendum a few years ago about them joining but voter turnout was so low they couldnt consider the results seriously. As others have pointed out this happened with the Republic of Texas in 1845. When they initially applied to join the US they were denied under Andrew Jacksons admin because it would upset the balance of free vs slave states. Vermont was also briefly an independent nation prior to joining as the 14th state. California is a bit murky they were by some metrics an independent nation for like a month but in earnest the US government was planning to take it anyways. Kingdom of Hawaii might be an example of a less legitimate willing country to join Im not sure the native Hawaiians initially were as enthusiastic to join the US as the white landowners who kind of came in and took over and applied for statehood. In todays age I cant imagine what other countries would consider joining the US except perhaps Greenland ironically and maybe some Carribean island nations. With todays heated hyperpartisan political climate in America and current international relations I cant imagine any country is jumping in line at the moment. Maybe if they experienced significant domestic challenges and saw joining the US as a relief they would consider but at that point not sure how many Americans would be ok with them joining. You say that the U.S. would get to expand its territory as if that is necessarily a good thing. We are already huge. It is difficult to maintain cohesion across a vast territory and differences in culture. Just having more land isnt a net positive. I feel like the age / idea of endless expansion is passé unless youre Russia. Also any place that wanted to jump to be part of the U.S. would only do so if they are poor. Why would a wealthy nation that is doing well want to? And then wed just have another Kentucky or Mississippi on our hands that take more federal dollars than they contribute. That is a winlose for sure. Finally its A PART OF something not apart of. That would mean the exact opposite if it were even grammatically correct. Itd depend highly on the culture and political history as well as whether the new population would massively change voting to one side or the other. For examples * Pakistan? Hell no. * Philippines? Maybe. * Dutch Caribbean islands? Sure. They would likely have to become a state to full on join since U.S. already has territories they are protected by U.S but not a state. Puerto Rico is a great example of what you’re describing and have had votes to become a state if you’re looking for something to read about. The political ramifications of their joining would complicate things. Theyd need to either join as territories without voting rights or theyd need to be evenly split able along the US partisan political lines. Depends on the country It would depend on where they are located. It would have to make geographical sense Its impossible to answer a question like this without specifics. But I would be open to the idea depending on many many variables. As with the Missouri Compromise that would be so politically fraught that it feels pointless to answer the question. Out of context Id welcome anyone who wants to join the United States. But in the context of political and military implications I dont see any concrete benefit. Expanding to the west coast had obvious benefits foremost making sure no other country developed between us and the Pacific and with climate change it might benefit to expand north but...southern Canada is pretty well set. TLDR It would be a crap show since the only thing politicians would care about would be if each particular place had people likely to vote blue or red. It would become like everything else in American society deeply politicized on day 1. If I may go off topic for a bit the problem with our two party system is that most politicians in the US spend the majority of their time making the argument that the other party is unfit to hold power. They are both right about that. Of course neither party is fit to rule which is why our nation was designed as a representative republic with democratic elections. The result is that the opposing parties stake out their identities almost exclusively by what they oppose or more accurately whom they oppose. Thats why a lot of obviously positive legislation with no downside for example removing short barrelled rifles from the NFA hasnt happened even though it would save a ton of money could be enacted now and would free up federal law enforcement officers to chase after real criminals. But since nearly every political issue in this case gun control is a battlefield for partisan politics nobody wants to seem weak for what a future primary opponent would easily be able to exploit as a soft on guns position. You can always tell what the parties agree on for example neither party has the stomach to propose the one thing that could balance the federal budget since they talk about it a lot but avoid the most obvious solutions. The obvious solution to the budget crisis is entitlement reform but nobody wants to be known as the people who are coming after social security so we spend our time arguing about the icing instead of the cake. All that having been said no. If adding voters and voting seats in congress is involved then the parties would just support or oppose based on whether they thought the new voters would vote for the Rs or the Ds instead of whether becoming part of the US would be good for say Greenlanders or Americans. Would you support a country that willingly wants to become part of the USA? Theoretically...? I mean theres a lot of nuance to that question. ...lets say the citizens of a country voted willingly to become a territory of the USA would you support something like this? A territory? No. Nope. No way. Territories are fuckedup. Look at how we treat Puerto Rico. They dont get to vote but theyre still subject to tons of our laws. We make all their imports come through the US which raises all their prices. And then when they need disaster relief weve got tons of citizens bitching about foreign aid. Puerto Rico should absolutely be a state. And any nation that decides it wants to become part of the US should be a state too. If it is defensible and otherwise compatible with American interests. For instance not a country in Central Asia. The reactionary/conservative part of USA will never allow it. Nobody remembers it but about 100 years ago there were 4 places that used to be considered equally under US influence Puerto Rico Hawaii Cuba and Philippines. Eventually Hawaii got occupied by the US for its strategic importance Cuba was close to becoming a US territory but it just did not work out. Philippines got ruled out for one reason only Americans did not want millions of Filipinos becoming US citizens with voting rights. Every calculation like this gets the politicians thinking how many senate seats will they get? Which way will they vote? Id question the intelligence and motivation of the people of any country who want to join the US. Imagine voluntarily joining a nation that elected Trump? Jeez youd have to weep for those people. Is that country an existing territory whose residents are US citizens? Yes. ...but Im guessing most other Americans would say no. Depends on the country but most likely yes. I.e. if they were extremely culturally different from us I probably would oppose it but Id imagine in that case they wouldnt be interested either. I would there would be a lot of issues needed to be worked through first. I cant imagine anyone paying attention to what is going on right now wanting to do that. With the current state of events I would be very surprised if any country voluntarily decided that they want to become part of the US. Theyd probably be giving up a lot of freedoms and rights. Anyone who wants in on this should never be allowed to be in on this. Puerto Rico has voted multiple times to become the 51st state and congress has ignored it each time. The problem is theyd have to rework the entire electoral college to do that and republicans would lose power in doing so so theyll never agree to it. In 2024 Puerto Rico a U.S. territory held a referendum on it status and over 50% of the people voted for statehood. To date the U.S. congress has not acted on this. Most people would prefer self governance. But why would any country especially one that doesn’t border the US want to join this shit show? We don’t provide health care for our citizens we don’t provide an appropriate education for our citizens we don’t guarantee them a roof over their heads but criminalize them if they don’t have one. We add chemicals to our food supply that most of the rest of the world bans and our police are violent and not held accountable. But we do have a bunch of nukes a shit ton of bombs and all the equipment necessary to deliver said munitions anywhere on the planet at the whim of our war mongering government. Brother they can barely manage what we have. We dont need to stack more food onto an already uncleanable plate. Mmm maybe given the right circumstances but most likely not. I imagine any country wanting to do that right now would be very poor and hoping for a big boost to its living standards. While I’m all for aid and foreign development that would be a lift we couldn’t afford right now aside from the other longterm problems of such an unequal union. Half the country wouldn’t. The Senate and sometimes house is held by thin margins. Throwing an extra 24 senators 2 per state would throw that off. Republicans will never support a territory that votes liberal no matter what Trump says about Canada. Democrats will never support a territory that votes conservative. I don’t even want to think about she would happen if either party tried this. Sure. Its better than how it usually goes. Theres more to it than that there are certain requirements and Congress itself would need to ratify it. If I thought the majority of the population would be good Americans I would support it. Being a Territory isn’t a great situation for the people but becoming the 51st state would be. Everything else is it depends”. Adding Armenia has pluses and minuses. Belize is the same. Its my dream Depends on the country. England and Somalia? No. Canada or Greenland? Yes. I’m kind of surprised that so many people would say no or maybe. Imo unless it’s a deliberately malicious action like say Russia joining the USA and becoming a state and then pushing for another war with Ukraine using the US military to do it we should say yes always with no exceptions. America is not perfect but I do love my country and what it represents and if other people also love my country and what it represents then I think they are already in their hearts Americans. Maybe even more American than some bybirth Americans. If Mexico or Liberia or Japan or Portugal or Ukraine or anyone else said We want to be Americans” I think the only reasonable answer is to say Yes welcome to the club”. I do think Puerto Rico should be made a state too. Sure we have problems to deal with already but these aren’t impossible problems to solve. We’re just doing a poor job at solving them. I don’t believe we should let the incompetence of our politicians stop The American Dreamtm. I think nobody has mentioned this so I will because Ive always found it a quirky and funny story. My country in the 40s had a movement whose purpose was the unification of Italy with the USA by having Italy becoming a US State. It was the and It never really had any real success which is quite normal since it was likely seen as an utopy or a bad move from both sides from the Italian part it was a loss of the sovereignty just regained with the end of the Civil War thanks to the Allies obviously but also to our own partisans from the American part it would mean bringing in a state of 45 million people who did not speak English on the other part of the ocean inside one of 140 million on their side of the ocean. It would mean that of the new United States population almost a quarter would be Italian speaking and living in Italy instead of the US so politics votes decisions and whatsoever would highly be driven by this enormous chunk of population who didnt even understand their fellow citizens language. So either the Americans would have made a common front and apartheid the Italians or someone living in a small town in the province of Varese would have a vote largely more valuable since it would probably be more aligned to that of other Italians than that of an inhabitant of a small town in Marion County. It would depend on the circumstances. Is this something their people voted on? Do they bring anything to the table or are they just a charity case? Im not opposed to bringing in charity cases but Id worry people like the current administration wouldnt be very kind to them. Yes absolutely. It depends on the crime sickness and debt load theyd bring. Plus would they want to integrate fully or keep EVERYTHING about their laws etc. intact? Expanding territory with an impoverished country is not a winwin. It is only a win for the impoverished country. If you talking Philippines a Province of Canada Greenland or a Caribbean Islands nation sure. Otherwise the culture would too different to merge I would personally support both Alberta and Puerto Rico joining assuming it was done well. Are they in the continental Americas? Yes if yes no If no Edit never Quebec or any other territory here thats still heavily French. In 1984 I was living on Pohnpei in the Federated States of Micronesia when there was a Plebiscite to vote to become part of the US or their own to form a country or to be a separate country. It was known as the Strategic Trust Territory of the FSM the US became guardian of the six island groups from Japan after WW2. Two of the groups Marshall Islands and Palau split off separately to form their own country thinking they will get more from the US as strategic military areas. So the remaining for Island groups Kosrae Pohnpei Truk and Yap had the Plebiscite. It was interesting as there would be small neighborhoods meetings educating folks on the different outcomes and benefits. The family I lived with father was educated in the US and had meetings at the house. He was pro becoming a part of the US but tried to be neutral his wife and the other women were worried about their children becoming soldiers it was during the cold war buildup of the Reagan era. It was a close vote between the three choices no outright majority if I recall. Pohnpei voted to become a separate country the other three island states voted to become one country. Pohnpei was told it could not become separate but be a state of the new country and the capital would be built on the island. It was an interesting time to witness. Believe the Marianna islands went through a similar vote and became a territory of the US. Depends what country. Some would do this just so we could bring them up to first world standards. Not interested in that Well if they want to then that’s fine. If the vote was over 66% than yes. I think moves that drastic should have a 2/3rds majority. I will accept southern ireland as part of massachusetts For a time the U.S. was hellbent on expansion and took territory however it came. We bought it took by force welcomed its entry and accepted it as war concession. These days itd be strange as representation has been set and everyone likes it that way. We still have overseas territories that are U.S. protectorates but I dont see them ever getting representation in Congress. Probably not unless it was Canada Yes assuming its good economically and culturally for our nation. Thats......how the USA became the USA. Its also why we have states rather than being a large mass. Each state has its own politics and needs but decided at some point in the past chose to join the larger group known as the USA. Would support this continuing to happen? Yes as long as the state wishing annexation was a sovereign entity or being released by a sovereign entity. I could not accept the annexation of Alberta for instance unless both Alberta agreed and Canada did as well. There was a movement in Italy following WW2 trying to make Italy a state At this point Id think there must be something wrong with any country wanting to do that. Maybe wait a decade or so and see what things look like first. If only there was a precedent set in our nations history……. I wonder…. The only countries that would be considered are wealthy English speaking countries with high standards of living. The Dominican Republic asked for this in the early 1870s we said no https//en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Proposed_annexation_of_Santo_Domingo#~text=The%20proposed%20annexation%20of%20Santoeconomic%20expansion%20in%20the%20region. I would say they would be a territory and I guess I’m on with it. yeah? but Im happy with the way the USA is now so its w/e. Of course. Why wouldnt I? More people in the economy travel and trade etc. I would support it if they are a stable country. Its only a winwin if both sides actually get something. A vague expanding territory doesnt equate to that. Hey why not. But you have to bring more to the table than ‘territory’. Whatcha got? Oil is an old favorite. Maybe you’re on the equator? That makes a good launch site. I would 100 be down for this. I’m thinking Liberia or Guyana. How about you guys? It would kind of depend. If say the Marshal Islands decided to go this route? Sure. If like Nigeria wanted to do this? No As others have said Texas did this. Historically the main anxiety Americans have had about annexing territories and granting them statehood is how it would change voting and the political balance of power. If a territory is more likely to vote for one party then the other party might oppose them becoming a state. So prior to the Civil War when slavery was the main issue territories out west would only be granted statehood if one slave state and one free state were brought into the union. This only changed really after the Civil War but with the current political divide I could see something similar happening. A good example might be Alberta which has had an element of wanting to join the US at points. Since it leans conservative Id imagine conservatives in the US would want them and liberals would not. To be fair though just based on US history if the territory that wants to join the US isnt culturally similar to the US i.e. Basically anything that isnt canada itd probably have territory status before statehood like Guam or Puerto Rico. I cant imagine a lot of sovereign states would want to be a territory since they dont get political representation. Most likely yes but there are a lot of stipulations. Any largely populated countriesIndia China etc. I would say no because based on how our country is run their population would give them too much control instantly. I want them to join my country I don’t want them to turn my country into their country. Using an analogy. The Donetsk region of Ukraine has already voted to become part of Russia. Would you support that? Would we really want a country that wants to be a part of …. Looks around….. this? Yes. That’s all any of us want. Join us the RIGHT way. Need help? Come knock come in the front door. Don’t sneak in a window and demand to stay and start burning shit down when the cops come to round you up. I support anyone willing to do what’s necessary to do it right I would seriously consider the sanity of any country that wanted to become a part of this clown show. A poor country just wanting to expand territory is not a win win. Depending on where the territory is might be a headache to project power there get drawn into historical neighboring feuds we have no interest in. Also opens the door for everyone in that territory to move here without controls. Depending on how many people some places here are in a severe housing shortage. Also mass exodus could collapse the local economy in the places they’re leaving. Now that I’ve typed all this the post seems like a troll post. While I do want to say yes there may be problems down the road in terms of people that have the sentiment that they are a unique people from a nation that has already existed and don’t share our WASP origins or common core culture that descends from our WASP founders which serves as an espirit de corps. Throughout the country about 10 percent of Americans can trace their roots to the original mayflower settlers and 60 percent of Americans have ancestors that lived in the US before the revolutionary war. Through our history there were nations trying to split our country up and most of the time it has been Russia. Without the common factor it’s a lot easier to break apart the country and if successful it will set a bad precedent. Depends on the country and the circumstances. Right now the US is in an era of hyperpartisan politics. Any country wanting to join would set off a cascade of people analyzing what that means for the two big political parties. And of course nobody would get the analysis right the parties would change their overall focus to remain competitive. You wouldnt be adding a permanent blue or red state youd be adding a blue or red state for one election until they could adjust their tactics. However its possible that in 20 years our politics might have calmed down a lot. Generally that happens when one party gets its ass kicked in a bunch of elections and becomes a Diet Coke version of the other to remain competitive. As far as countries that would want to join that would require a shift in modern international politics. While Id happily welcome Canada likely with each province becoming its own state they dont currently gain anything by joining the US. Now if World War III breaks out with China and Russia who knows how things might play out. But the current international order doesnt give rich western democracies any reason to become new US states. They fall under the umbrella of US protection anyway. Now with poorer Central American/Caribbean countries I could see them wanting to join. Right now I dont think the US has any appetite for that. But its possible that that changes in the future. The big one that jumps to mind for me is Cuba. There are a lot of wealthy people in Florida who originally came from there who would love to get their ancestral home back in the US sphere. And while Cuban leadership is extremely antiUS who knows how things will be in 20 or 30 years. Yes its a very poor country right now but American companies would be chomping at the bit to invest in a Cuba that was a US territory again. Funny that you mention that. At this point Im wondering if thats the best path forward for Cuba. Its essentially a failed state at this point and it has a really bleak future if the status quo continues. Itd be damn near impossible to hold an impartial election on the island today but I wonder what percentage of the population would vote yes for that if that was a possibility. Most people I know who still live in Cuba would at least consider it. Texas was a country and became a state. Depends on the details but generally yes. I think this whole nationalistic system is BS and we need to be working towards a one world government. I also am not some evangelical who thinks that is some crazy biblical end time thing. We should have a similar process for joining as that of the EU Yes and there is precedent for this. Texas was its own country after it separated from Mexico. They later petitioned to become part of the US because they knew they could not win a war with Mexico. What country should this be? Mozambique? Your nation is racist and just becoming a fascist state. Parts like Puerto Rico are still not having the same rights. The idea everyone needs protection from the mean mean world is so brainwashed. Most countries will need protection from the USA because if you want something like lets say the oil from the gulf states you engage dictators to do the job for you and when these guys are not welcome anymore you arrange a crerpy war. Thats what happened so often. And who will care about if someone is supporting this idea? If a country really want to give up its souveranity its a case between them and USA. will never happen I guess 🤷 My immediate question would be why would any country want to willingly attach itself to our current shitshow? I would support just about any country that would want to become apart of the US. Not right now. Any country trying to join us under these circumstances is not worth trusting. Depends on the country and whether there’s a mutuallybeneficial relationship. In some cases it would make sense to admit as a state in other cases as a territory. Yes Absolutely. As long as the country is somewhat near the United States I assume youre thinking something in North America or the Caribbean and the United States has the fiscal capability to integrate them into the American economy. Yes as long as 1 the government of that country freely consented 2 the people of that country voted to join in a free and fair referendum 3 the territory could be reasonably added without destabilizing our country or the region So if Canada in a very alternate universe or Cape Verde wanted to join then I would be happy to let them. But adding Pakistan or Nigeria would bring too many problems to be feasible even if the people there wanted it. Depends for me. Is this country willing to integrate and adopt the American lifestyle and ideals? If so then I could entertain it. If this country is doing so for protection or financial assistance well knowing the U.S. Id say we likely already provide that. Theyd have to be bringing something of value. Some sort of economic value industry etc that we dont have control over. Otherwise whats the point? The U.S. doesnt need another entire countrys worth of people to govern. It can barely govern the population it has. 100%. More land more people more power. I’d want to vet and have the incoming country become valuable though and not just a 100% yes ASAP mindset. I would be in support of it as long as thats what the people want. I wouldn’t advise anyone join us due to the state of the political system… No. Stay far away from this shit show. Yes. Unless its China or India where their population would completely override us. Not if they did not have anything to offer but they just wanted benefits. Depends. Will the country pull their own weight or is it just another welfare state we need to support? i can’t balance this one in my head. i am genuinely afraid of how the president would treat PR if it became a state. like would it be even more of a raw deal? we already know he’s a racist. what i wish for most is for PR to be able to control its own destiny. Texas and Hawaii were independent countries that willingly became a part of the United States though the reality for both was rather more complicated for that. Depends on the country seeking admission. No we cant keep our collective sh×t together as is. We dont need to add to our dumpster fire of a failed nation! Tbh if they want to be part of our shitshow I would recommend they dont instead. No. To give an answer to this would require me to move beyond a mental block I have which is questioning their judgement. Im not sure I would want anyone who sees whats going on and thinks yeah Id like to be a part of that to be a part of this. Im also on the fence about whether I want our system to spread. Were entirely reliant on infinitegrowth capitalism which is killing our planet. More America means more destruction. It also provides more opportunities to go to war with lesser nations. Like we might not care about a feud between Bolivia and Peru but if Peru decides it wants to join America then we now have/get to care about Bolivia more than we already do of course so now we can send more young men to go kill a bunch of people weve never met in a country weve never been to. So actually no I would not support taking on more territories. In fact Id like us to lose some. If Im being honest the whole concept of borders and nations can fuck right off as well. Through writing this Ive actually landed on wanting to protect the rest of the countries from US influence. Yes. Its wild to me that nobody has been joining up since the first decade of the last century. Hawaii didnt seem too stoked about it and Alaska was a purchase. I dont know why all of canada and central america didnt just become America. Probably because we were too generous with the goods and defense for foreign nations we were on good terms with. If their citizenry requested it? Puerto Rico? Yes. Guam? Panama? Yes. Haiti? Cuba? Probably with an asterisk. Russia? Nope. My dad used to say the only reason Puerto Rico isnt already a state is because the powers that be cant figure out how to arrange more stars on the US flag. He was joking of course but it does present a unique problem if you think about it. Same goes for Guam and the US Virgin Islands. Personally though Id welcome all three of these countries to become official states. Depending on circumstances yes. If the people Puerto Rico clearly indicate their desire for full statehood they should absolutely get it. Likewise I would support Puerto Rican independence or the maintenance of the status quo or some other arrangement so long as its Puerto Ricos own democratic choice. For other places say Canada or Greenland as theyre in the news it would again depend on circumstances particularly the popular will of their people as expressed democratically. Generally speaking though if their people did express a preference for joining the USA then I would be in favor of welcoming them in. It would depend on the country and if their belief system was consistent with our Constitution. If the majority of the population did not support the Constitution it wouldn’t be fair to them or us to grant them statehood. I believe that at one time El Salvador asked to become a US state. If you show me a vote that says at least 80% of people in the county want that then fine the more the merrier. But without a vote showing a significant landslide type majority I don’t think it’s moral to support. The Dominican Republic wanted to become part of the US during Grants administration. The Senate said no mainly due to racism. I’d like to see Puerto Rico receive statehood within the decade I would also like to have referendums held in our other territories to see if the people of those territories would even want statehood to stay a territory or to even go their own way. Post 4 What is creamer? In US tv/film/books Ive noticed a character will say theyre adding creamer to their coffee. What is creamer? Is it just a thicker type of milk? I am in the midwest. My grandmother was our family coffee person. Grandma called thickened milk cream. Powdered nondairy was called creamer. She offered both cream and creamer to guests because some people are firmly cream in their coffee and others are firmly creamer in their coffee. Its a mix of vegetable oil milk proteins sugar and flavourings that somewhat resembles cream. It can be a liquid premixed with water or powder that dissolves in coffee. It is either half and half cream or some synthetic blend of powdered milk and flavoring. [deleted] Its a nondairy creamer often flavored. These are typically shelf stable products. At gas stations they come in little pakcets. There are both liquid and powdered creamers plain or in various flavors Its not always chemicals and powdered like all the comments are making. We use a creamer made from low fat milk and is not at all shelf stable. We buy it from the dairy section and it has to stay in the fridge. Theres normally a whole section in the dairy cases at the grocery store full of different brands and flavors. Creamer refers to what someone will put in their coffee. It could be half &amp half non dairy heavy cream whatever the hell coffeemate is. But it’s the cream like thing that goes in coffee. Not just cream itself. Like if a recipe calls for cream you wouldn’t say I’m adding creamer” See https//en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nondairy_creamer Depending on who you talk to creamer can be several different things. Usually when someone asks for creamer they mean nondairy creamer. This can be in a powder form or liquid. But it can also mean any type of milk that goes in the coffee. This would include heavy whipping cream half and half evaporated milk and etc. As you can see in this thread creamer as a term is ambiguous. You can probably assume it doesn’t have much milk fat. Milk fat is comparatively expensive so it’s replaced with something else. It could certainly have skim milk or powdered milk that has little or no milk fat / cream. The US generally uses a 10% milk fat product called half &amp half in coffee. It can be between 10% and 18% but for cost reasons it’s invariably 10%. For better shelf life and/or to reduce cost the cream is replaced with something else. There are also nondairy creamers for people with allergies and vegans. The creamer in our fridge right now has the following ingredient list nonfat milk sugar heavy cream buttermilk vegetable oil natural flavors gellan gum. So it probably *should* just be a blend of milk and cream but in the name of shelf stability and true American fashion we’ve done some sort of food chemistry to it. Its some gross stuff made of partially hydrogenated vegetable oil flavorings and corn syrup Creamer is a non dairy product. It is generally made of sugar water and vegetable oil. There maybe additional flavorings. Here ya go Nondairy creamer https//g.co/kgs/34TkXg1 its a product meant to thicken your coffee filling the file of cream but made out of other things and this unable to be called cream typically made from things like palm oil and usually flavored Creamer from my understanding is what is set out to mix with your coffee to make it more milky. There is powdered and liquid creamer which is shelf stable while unrefrigerated sometimes dairy free and sometimes comes with artificial flavors. I think it has a funny chemical aftertaste and is my least favorite choice but alas my stomach cannot tolerate black coffee anymore. Creamer is not the same as real milk half and half or cream which require refrigeration since they are fresh dairy products. Theyre intended as a milk substitute to make coffee less bitter and more palatable if youre not a fan of black coffee. I guess you could probably compare them to butter/margarine or mayo/Miracle Whip or Kraft single slices/American cheese slices. Its fake cream usually in powder form but sometimes in liquid form. That may sound unappetizing but it has the advantage of not going sour. For that reason its commonly used in offices and workplace cafeterias. Many Americans drink their coffee black without sugar Typically its used to describe a product thats essentially a nondairy artificial cream. Its cheaper and doesnt spoil as quickly as real cream and is lactose free. And it comes in lots of flavors like vanilla hazelnut caramel etc. It is a category. Any cream milk or powder that you add to an american coffee can be called creamer like do you have any creamer?” Then you ask for a type of creamer What kind do you have? Do you have Oat Milk? Heavy Cream? Half &amp Half? Powdered Creamer?” Etc Usually creamer” refers to a vegetable syrup product with milk derivatives sodium caseinate and flavoring. Cream” for coffee typically refers to halfandhalf 50% whole milk 50% cream. People use it generically for any milk type of additive for their coffee. It can be milk half and half or even stuff like coffee mate that is water oil and powdered milk. But creamer is specifically the fake one. Ingredients. WATER CORN SYRUP SOLIDS SOYBEAN OIL AND LESS THAN 2% OF MICELLAR CASEIN A MILK DERIVATIVE I use cream. I’ve seen it called whitener” in Germany. A milkflavored nondairy substitute for cream sometimes liquid sometimes powdered. Its anything that creams coffee. Could be milk heavy cream a mixture of both or a powder either dry milk based or nondairy. It could also be nut milk or soy as long as it mixes well. Might be getting ahead of myself. In the US we typically drink drip coffee which is weaker than espresso. It does not need to be mixed 50/50 with steamed milk to make a latte or hot water for an Americano no one drinks those here. All it takes is a tablespoon or two 1530 ml of creamer to make a balanced coffee drink. Drip coffee with no creamer in it is called black coffee. Creamer is always either two things in a household/ restaurant/ gas station milk powder sweetner and processed stuff or vegetable oil sweetner and processed stuff. It comes in loads of flavors but I haven’t seen that mentioned much in movies. It’s usually vanilla but people like my step mom have tried loads of flavors. In a coffee shop it is usually just half and half and you’ll have to ask for flavoring added. A lot of older people don’t understand that from what I’ve noticed It’s different things to different people. When I think of creamer I think of something like Coffee Mate. Despite popular belief Americans also use regular cream in our coffee. I personally hate creamer. When you ask the question what is creamer” you’ll get the nondairy answer that others have given. But it’s not unusual for someone to ask for creamer not really caring whether it’s light cream half and half or fake. Creamer is basically fake cream. It comes in both liquid and powder form though the powder is most common. Its used because cream requires refrigeration and most people havent ever had real cream in their coffee and dont know what theyre missing. As one who used to own a coffee house I d say its a very subjective term. Its whatever you use to cream your coffee. Could be Half &amp Half milk cream some nondairy imitation creamer... Powered... Liquid.... Whatever floats your boat. Thats creamer. Its usually a powdered product like Coffee Mate that contains powdered milk sweeteners and flavours. Ive also heard the term used to refer to a mix of milk and cream half and half. I have chobani creamer in my fridge. Its ingredients are cream cane sugar chocolate they have chocolatefree flavors as well and natural flavors. And I also use Nutpods creamer which is almond milk coconut milk and a bit of sugar with a very pleasant coconuty flavor. There are also nondairy creamers which use a vegetable oil base but basically anything other than plain cream or milk thats meant to take the place of cream or milk in coffee is creamer. Ive always taken it to be short for nondairy creamer what combo of chemicals that is I couldnt tell you. If I wanted something dairy based in my coffee its cream or milk. Creamer is a nondairy substitute for milk or cream used in beverages like coffee and tea. It has a longer shelflife than real cream and does not need to be refrigerated. It’s something to put on your coffee usually has milk fat and some flavoring is ultra processed food I don’t really like it I prefer half and half that is half milk half cream. When Americans say creamer theyre typically referring to products like CoffeeMate which is an artificial dairy product made from vegetable oil corn syrup sodium caseinate a bunch of chemicals and artificial flavors. Truly nasty stuff. Its sold both in a liquid form which kinda resembles milk with a slightly thicker consistency or as a powder. In recent years Ive noticed more natural versions of coffee creamer appearing on store shelves made with a real dairy or plantmilk base and natural sweeteners/flavoring. When Americans say cream in a coffee context theyre typically referring to half and half which is a real dairy product made with a mixture of whole milk and cream. A lot of Americans prefer it in their coffee over milk because you can use less and get a creamier taste. You hope it is half &amp half or light cream but there are some concoctions made of oil sugar and milk protein or not may be nondairy and a bunch of stabilizers &amp preservatives. Be suspicious of any single serve Tbs sized cups you are handed and check. I never hear creamer refer to a product with dairy in it its always the nondairy alternative. But these comments have linked to several dairy creamers so I guess its not so simple. Its just any kind of cream substitute for coffee. Some of its shelfstable some of it has to be refrigerated. Some of its liquid some of its powdered. Some of it is made from plant milks. A lot of it is flavored. 🤤 I like adding a little bit of hazelnut creamer to hot chocolate! Its a nondairy substitute for actual cream or milk. Comes in a powder or liquid and there are a whole bunch of flavors of it. Coffee Mate and International Delight are the two bestknown brands. I see this lately on TikTok. Americans don’t DRINK half &amp half. It goes in your coffee. What you want is 2% milk which doesn’t go in coffee unless you’re a maniac. Usually we use half &amp half in coffee which is a product sold that’s half heavy cream and half milk. Creamer usually refers to an artificial/nondairy product used in coffee usually because it’s cheap and shelfstable. You might see liquid creamer cups that hold a liquid that’s like oil corn syrup and powdered milk often flavored with things like hazelnut vanilla or a powder in a canister that’s some sort of sweetener and powdered milk protein. You’ll most commonly see these in offices waiting rooms offering free coffee lower end hotel lobby coffee and the like. Its a processed product made from minimal milk proteins or completely nondairy meant for adding to coffee. Its mean as a shelf stable or long shelf life product primarily used in offices and similar contexts. Basically so you can have a milk equivalent in places where regular dairy products would spoil or take up too much space or where you dont have refrigeration. Liquid coffee creamer is somewhat popular at home. Both for the lactose intolerant though its getting displaced by plant based milks and lactose free milk. And because its often flavored. If youre the sort of person who wants French Vanilla or whatever the fuck is often done with creamer. From your post history it seems youre likely in the UK. You guys have this too its just marketed as coffee whitener rather than creamer. And the major brand seems to be the same as in the US. Coffee Mate from Nestle. Though you dont have the same variety of nonsense. With chocolate egg nog mint and whatever the hell flavors available. A nondairy cream substitute used for coffee or hot tea but typically coffee. Most often in powdered form it also comes in liquid forms too. Half and Half Creamer a cheap nondairy artificial cream made from oil and who knows what else. Coffee mate is the most popular brand. It’s as disgusting as it sounds. People add milk to coffee to soften the bitterness People also add sweet cream to coffee to do the same. Creamer is a non dairy alternative that does the same thing take the bitterness out of coffee but is non dairy so its safe for lactose intolerant people This being America it also usually has a lot of sugar and flavoring in it. If you are lucky you will get half and half which is half milk/half cream. Usually and technically however its a artificial milklike product made from vegetable oil and other stuff that comes in a bunch of flavors or even a powderized form of said milklike product. I wont use creamers only real milk. The first ingredient in creamer is HFCS. The dairy kind is usually milk sugar and cream sometimes a flavoring like vanilla and maybe some sort of preservative depending on the brand. The nondairy kind is made with vegetable oil instead of dairy. Similar to how margarine is made vs real butter. A creamer is a small packeted serving of cream or flavored analog. Its usually a powdered or liquid cup or packet that may or may not contain dairy. I despise the powdered stuff its gross to me. I will use half and half if its all I have available or the flavored liquid creamer that is flavored like French vanilla hazelnut caramel etc. I prefer to use whole milk in my coffee and quite a bit of it so much so that the people Im with jokingly ask if Im drinking coffee with milk or milk with coffee. Bleh. I think most people use half and half which is half cream and half milk? But there is a product made from oils sugar and milk protein that may be what you’re seeing. When I used to use creamer I used heavy cream. It lasts a fairly long time in the fridge and you don’t have to use very much It’s thicker than regular milk but less thick than heavy cream. They come plain or in different flavors. I like my creamer vanilla flavored. Creamer is to cream as margarine is to butter. The nondairy creamer is shelfstable but kinda nasty to some people. It’s often referred to as whitener” in EU and UK. As we use the powdered variety in the US and travel to Europe often it’s very difficult to find. I mix a2” whole milk with just a splash of dairy creamer in my coffee MidAtlantic region here its 1/2 n 1/2 or also called half n half. Its equal parts whole milk and cream single cream in the UK. When I lived in the UK we just used single cream and less of it. However due to mass marketing and advertising and absolutely terribly coffee most Americans have started using flavoured creamer which can be a dried powdered mix to add to coffee with a flavouring or something like International Delights nondairy flavoured coffee creamer. It is used to disguise the taste of the subpar coffee. Fun fact I havent seen mentioned in the comments Powdered creamer is flammable. MREs often contain a packet of instant coffee and a packet of powdered nondairy creamer the creamer can be used along with the napkins to start a fire in a survival scenario. I only use actual milk if I want cream in my coffee. Usually of the chocolate variety. The flavored creamers are mostly non dairy stuff like vegetable oils and high fructose corn syrup. To me creamer usually means some kind of flavored cream such as hazelnut or vanilla. Its sold in bottles for home use here and there are also little liquid packs you can get at places that serve coffee. A disgusting concoction of soybean oil and/or margarine corn syrup artificial flavor and sodium caseinate used as a poor substitute for real cream. That’s why it’s called creamer and not cream. Coffee Cream and Coffee CreamER are 2 different things typically. A lot of people here have broken down creamer a few times so heres how I describe Coffee CREAM to people outside of the US Its a dairy mixture most typically something we call half and half. Its typically made with a light whipping cream 2030% fat and is 50% light cream 50% wholefat milk. They can come lighter or thicker 75% milk or made with a heavy cream instead. Artifical creamERs have become more popular as a replacement for cream for typically dietary reasons like weight loss or some kind of intolerance. Some people prefer creamers for the shelf life and the flavor options. Is cream. Or a fake cream. What is creamer? Usually when somebody says creamer theyre referring to something that *isnt* just a thicker type of milk. Here in the US its pretty typical to put cream in your coffee. This is basically thicker/fattier milk. Youll often see something called Half &amp Half sold in the dairy case. If somebody says creamer theyre probably *not* talking about cream. Theres lots of other things you can put in your coffee... Nondairy creamers powdered creamers flavored and/or sweetened creamers... Coffee Mate is a fairly popular brand youll see in a lot of stores. It’s like gross fake flavored milk usually For most of my life creamer has been Coffee Mate. Nondairy dried powder. I loved it in college because there was a dairy farm close by that supplied the school with all our cow juice based products. One of those was fresh cream every day. I usually drink my coffee black but I couldnt resist that thick yellow sweet cream goodness. Creamer” is typically a nondairy or partialdairy version of cream either powder or liquid. Cream is a liquid milk product with 30% 36% milk fat that rises to the top of nonhomogenized milk i.e. fresh milk. Many creamers now come in flavors. Some people use ‘half and half’ in their coffee which is a whole milk and light cream mixture having 10.5% 18% milk fat. Many find this a more palatable alternative to creamer and a lighter alternative to heavy cream. Creamer refers to cream added to coffee but specifically a much more processed version. It could come in the form of liquid like CoffeeMate typically milke protein sugar oil and flavor or in powdered form. Its different from cream which is just thickened milk Look up coffee mate. It’s a milky sweetener. Some people use half and half which isn’t sweet but it’s a similar thickness. Theres real dairy creamer and like imitation powder creamer. The real ones usually Half and Half which is half full fat milk and half heavy cream. While the powdered creamer is like powdered sugar and veg oil and flavoring among other things It encompasses a lot. Everything from liquid milk to half&amphalf to full cream to some faux cream made from oats or soy or nuts. Even a powdered milk sometimes made from milk but often from wheat can be called creamer. My husband uses powdered creamer. I will only add milk or half and half and real sugar. Serious question to you why would you ask this when the answer is available by the simplest of web searches even of *reddit* searches. Id suspect a bot but I see too many grammatical errrrors in your history. Answer trying to collect karma?? Which points to bot future scam account etc. Enlighten us that we might learn to not think all of the &ltexpletive deleted simple questions like this are bots/scammers/idiots. Its just some sort of milk cream or at least cream like product that some people add to their coffee. It can be in powder or liquid form and consist of various ingredients. Personally I just drink my coffee black and think cream/sugar is kinda nasty but some folks wont even drink coffee without cream and sugar. Not an American but when I started working at McDonalds in 2000 they still had creamer portions. Phased them out a long time ago though. If youve heard of Coffee Mate thats a nondairy creamer. Coffeemate Anything milklike that you put in your coffee. It can also be those little minicups of the halfandhalf you get in restaurants. It is a more generic term for something to lighten a cup of coffee. It can be a non dairy powder half and half some sort of flavor creamer with a while lot of additives that you would need to look up to figure out what they are or maybe some sort of milk alternitive like soy or oat milk Creamer is something you can get in the dairy section or in a dry foods aisle. Some brands do both like coffee mate. traditionally half and half but many that are branded as creamers are basically vegetable oil. Creamer can refer to half and half half milk half cream by some people including me or to the gross borderline inedible fake milk. I am surprised this post did not go south lol It can mean whole milk or any other type of milk. I knew of somebody that would buy heavy whipping cream from the grocery store to put it in their coffee. There’s also imitation creamers and a variety of flavors you could buy at the grocery store or in restaurants. They have these little cups that are probably 20 years old because they ordered them thousands at a time or something that will give a little milk flavor. My spouse uses generic Coffeemate I use half and half. We call both creamer. In the upper South/near Midwest. It’s a non dairy way of adding cream and other flavors to your coffee at home. Like if you want some peppermint or mocha coffee at Christmas time or pumpkin spice during the fall. You can get a creamer in that flavor to add to normal coffee and have a flavor at home that you’d typically order from a coffee shop. Its whatever dairy or nondairy white stuff you put in the coffee. The Dairy version is usually halfandhalf \~10% MF There are nondairy substitutes that are made specifically for coffee and are usually shelfstable. Sometimes its a powder too. It’s fake cream. Can be liquid or powder. It’s a crime and should be punishable by flogging round the fleet” It’s an ultra processed food that mimics the texture of adding cream to coffee but usually tastes sweeter liquid and powder versions exist and multiple flavors as well It’s terrible for you BTW Nondairy milk powder. You’re in good company because we don’t know either. It’s some kind of chemical concoction that is like a somewhat thick white liquid that doesn’t taste anything like cream. They’re usually flavored and mostly lighten the color of the coffee. Cream mixed 11 with milk is what we call half and half. Other creamers are nondairy oil based stuff like Coffee Mate. T H I C C M I L K My preferred creamer is . Its like milk but better. Holds a froth very well too. Post 5 Jam vs Jelly — What’s in a jelly donut? I recently remembered that what you call jelly is what we call jam. I suddenly realised that jelly donuts are just donuts filled with jam. In American media I would hear about them and I imagined donuts filled with wiggly jelly. Same for cakes with jelly filling. I was fascinated and always wanted to try one. I’m a bit heartbroken now… Kindly tell me about nice real food that you have so that I can put it on my todo list for a US visit someday **Jam** Made from mashed or crushed fruit sugar pectin and acid. Its generally thicker and less transparent than jelly. **Jelly** Made from strained fruit juice sugar pectin and acid. Jelly is clear smooth and transparent. **Preserves** Contain whole or large pieces of fruit sugar and acid. They are generally thicker than jams and jellies. **Marmalade** Usually made with citrus fruits including pieces of peel or zest and sugar. Its a type of jam that is typically made with citrus fruits. **Gelatin also known as JellO** is a protein made from animal parts like skin and bones. It’s used to make jellylike desserts candies and to thicken foods. It melts in hot water and sets when cooled. Jam sweetened fruit spread with bits of the fruit in it Jelly same deal but strained and made with just the juice so it’s smoother Preserves like jam but with big chunks of fruit Marmalade citrus fruit jam Jello what you call jelly What you call Jelly we call Jello or flavoured Gelatine. We would never put it in a donut or on peanut butter. Our jelly is like jam but made from only the juice. It is much thicker and less firm than jello Jam has mashed fruit. Preserves are made from whole fruit. Marmalade is made from citrus and contains the peel. So our jelly donuts have what you would consider jam without pieces of fruit in it. In America jelly is made from fruit juice and pectin. Jello is made from gelatin wiggly. Jam is made from fruit puree. Preserves are made from whole fruit pieces. As far as I know no cakes or pastries are ever filled with Jello. Only with jelly or jam or preserves. And we may confusingly call all of those jellyfilled sorry about that. Is jelly for you what we call jello? Gelatine is all I think of when you say wiggly. The wiggle stuff in the bowl we usually call Jello which is a brand name for a famous Gelatin brand Jam and jelly are not the same. In America Jelly is made of fruit juices and is clear. Jam is made of fruit juices as well as crushed fruit. So it is a jelly donut as there is no jam in it What you call jelly we call JellO or gelatine. Jelly donuts have a type of very sweet fruitflavored goo in them that is not what you would consider jam or jelly. Its more viscous and is used exclusively as a filling in pastries. We also make a distinction between jelly jam preserves and marmalade. Jelly is just filtered fruit juice with pectin no chunks of fruit. Jam is mashed pieces of fruit and juice. Preserves are larger pieces of fruit with juice. Marmalade is citrus fruits like oranges. We do have JellO shots where spirits often vodka are put into bitesize pieces of JellO. Its usually the younger crowd think university students partaking. Since no one else seems to have read your entire post Ill bite. In Chicago we have sandwiches called Italian Beefs absolutely delicious see the TV show The Bear for reference. But basically its a sandwich made with thin slices of beef that have been stewed for hours to make them tender and create a flavorful broth. The beef is loaded onto a French roll and topped with giardiniera a relish of spicy pickled peppers made locally sometimes mozzarella or American cheese and the whole thing is dipped into the broth and I dont mean light dip either I mean soaked in broth or au jus. They wrap it in parchment paper and foil if you get it to go and most people have it with fries and a pop. Another delicious American food is biscuits and gravy. This one is a Southern food. Its a creamy white sausage gravy served on top of buttery fluffy biscuits. The gravy is made with milk flour and drippings from spicy pork sausage with the sausage itself in the gravy and served over a nice fluffy biscuit. The biscuit is not sweet the main flavor of this dish is savory and buttery. For something sweet we offer a host of pies apple pie cherry pie strawberry rhubarb key lime pie pecan pie and sweet potato pie. Also dont underestimate jelly donuts rolls or cakes. Those fillings are far superior to what any jello would be. Good luck hope you make it here soon. There’s a joke here…. Jelly and Jam have a similar base concept but I assure you they’re different consistencies and have different levels of fruit/sugar/etc to them. The wiggly stuff that’s sometimes a dessert is gelatin and we call it Jello which is the household brand name for it. You are def not finding a donut with gelatin inside. For jelly do you mean like a gelatin product? Then no you wont generally find donuts with gelatin jello in them itll be jam but without whole bits of fruit in it also known as jelly. A sweet treet you may see combined with gelatin is cheese cakes. If you havent tried cheese cake you absolutely should if get a chance. In American cuisine at least gelatin products are usually consumed on their own and are only occasionally layered with or put inside of something else Jam is not the same as jelly. In the USA you can buy jelly jam and preserves. Jelly is made with strained fruit juice rather than crushed fruit. Jello is what Americans call the food which Australians call jelly. Commercial jelly donuts tend to have a filling that I honestly wouldnt consider either jam or jelly. Its just a fruitflavored goo full of preservatives. 🥲 To us the wiggly thing is gelatin or jello although thats actually a brand name spelled JellO. People do sometimes incorporate it into cakes although the only way Ive ever tried it was in a poke cake which is kind of... colorful overly sweet childrens birthday party food. 😅 You make a lightcolored cake poke holes in it with a fork or skewer and then pour the jello on top so itll sink in and create colored streaks. Then you chill it so the jello can set up and frost it as usual. Im not sure what else to suggest. Jelly donuts are an old standby to us not an experiment. I think what youre really looking for is exotic foods but its hard to know whats exotic in the context of someone elses culture. Chili and cornbread? Biscuits and gravy? Root beer? Gumbo? Succotash? Corn on the cob? A turkey sandwich preferably with Swiss cheese? Pumpkin pie? Blueberry cobbler? Clam chowder? Southern sweet tea? Jambalaya? Pot roast? Grilled cheese sandwiches? Ranch dressing? Im just throwing out stuff you can Google if its unfamiliar LOL. We also have different regional styles of barbecue! Look up 7 layer jello salad/cake. Might be interesting to you. This clears up a lot of the mild confusion Ive had from Bakeoff. Wiggly is Jello Jam is made with crushed fruit jelly is made from fruit juice. Both are typically thickened with pectin. Jelly donuts have jelly in them. Gelatinthickened desserts and similar foods agarthickened foods for example may also be called jelly in the United States. But nobody is putting something like that into a donut as filling. Back in the old days jello poke cakes were popular as were jello salad abominations. My aunt would make a sheet cake and poke holes all over the top with a chopstick when it was cool. Then pour liquid jello aka UK jelly on top and put it in the fridge to solidify. I think what I was imagining was a filling closer to two sweets we have called Kueh Lompang and Kueh Lapis. Those are colourful chewy/wiggly and made out of tapioca starch. Theyre very mildly sweet and taste kind of coconutty so I think those would be a great filling for cake and donuts. I forgot that JellO is more like a glassy one now you all think Im weird haha 🙃 lol one of the YouTubers I watched recently made a peanut butter and jelly” sandwich because he thought the same thing. We were all dying watching him eat it and proclaim it tasty. Once he made a proper pbj he was much happier at the taste. Where in America are you going? That could affect our suggestions for food. My go to suggestion is biscuits and gravy because it’s food from the gods. But you need to have it somewhere that knows how to make proper sawmill gravy and that probably in south eastern portions of the country. You make a valid point. When I go to boba places here in the U.S. and they offer me jelly in my drink its the same thing as what I assume you mean by the word and has no relation to fruit. So we do have contexts where the term means different things. OP youre a day late with this post. Yesterday was National Jelly Donut Day. A lot of foods that we have in the US are actually just modified versions of other countries’ foods. It makes sense given the whole nation of immigrants thing but it’s hard to identify something that is uniquely American. And US foods are themselves very regional so it matters where you go. Something that’s not actually unique to the US but is also something I’ve very very rarely seen outside of North or South American is the US version of Mexican food. If you come to the south west region of the US find a busy taco truck and try a little bit of everything. Also green chili is lovely. And for deserts a sopapilla fried bread with cinnamon and sugar is wonderful without being excessively sweet. If you’re in the southern states look for gumbo jambalaya and biscuits and gravy. Those are dishes that are particularly unique to the US. Try a frybread a traditional Native American pastry Definitely time your visit to coincide with a state or county fair/carnival. These are often but not always around autumn. Food from a carnival/fair epitomizes American excess when it comes to what we will fry/cake in sugar/ etc. Fried Oreos are a classic as are funnel cakes. When you go I recommend trousers that are either a size up from your usual or that have an elastic waistband. Jelly is a spread made with only strained fruit juice pectin and sugar. Jam is a similar spread made with unstrained crushed fruit pectin and sugar. Jello is wobbly and made with gelatin. Jelly is made from fruit juice while Jam is made from crushed or pureed fruit. Jelly is more wiggly than Jam. Jello is also wiggly but it is made from animal collagen and fruit flavoring. We call the giggly stuff jello or gelatin. Jelly is smooth and Jam has fruit Gelatin desserts are generally referred to as JellO or Jello as it’s the dominant brand similar to how Xerox can be substituted for photocopy. Jelly donuts have a fruit filling which is usually sweet and has a consistency of a thick liquid so it can be injected into the donut. Donuts filled with JellO would be gross. What you call jelly is what we call JellO. Its a brand name. Similar to how you call it hoovering. Hoover is a brand name. Jam jelly preserves are all kind of the same albeit made differently. Thats what goes in those donuts. I think your jelly is gelatin. Our donuts are filled with jam/jelly if it has pieces of fruit its jam jelly if not Jello or gelatin is the boxed stuff that you mix with hot water jam is a cooked fruit and sugar concoction with seeds left in jelly is the same as jam but strained with no seeds. What is used in jelly doughnuts is a type of the strained jam. As far as I know Britain is the only place where gelatin in cakes is really a thing and I only know that because I watched 15 seasons of the Great British Baking Show this past year. Jelly here is a substance much like jam but made from fruit juice where as jam is made with chopped macerated or chopped fruit. Though honestly we use the words interchangeably a lot. Jam or jelly are what you find in a jelly doughnut as fillings in American cakes and we like it on toast or with peanut butter as well. We did have a few years where we as a country did really weird things with gelatin. Just Google Aspic or look up Jello salads. We like to pretend these 1970s foods are things of the past but Jello salads appear on holidays pretty regularly and it is my understanding that Midwesterners arent even embarrassed by them. To clarify terms Jello is the most popular brand of gelatin snacks in the US to the point where it has become the generic word most often used when we are talking about sweet fruit flavored gelatin treats. US terms Jello the gelatin based dessert that jiggles. Vegetarian versions may be made with agar agar or carrageenan instead of animal collagen. Often artificially colored and flavored. Jelly a clarified fruit preserve that gels” because of the fruit pectin and sugar. Made from fruit juice and spreads clear. Jam an *unclarified* fruit preserve. Made from crushed fruit not juice. Thickened due to the fruit pectin and sugar but isn’t clear like jelly. [Fruit] Preserves an unclarified fruit preserve with larger chunks of fruit or berry in it. Like jam but less uniformly crushed. https//www.reddit.com/r/coolguides/s/9njEbRBzwP we use the second one...Jelly The closest thing I think of is a poke cake. Its a sheet cake that you poke with a wooden spoon when its hot then pour a liquid on top. A lot of people will put pudding very similar to custard but without eggs. But some people will put jello the name brand for gelatin dessert. Ive never tried it and its not something youd find in a bakery. Its purely homemade. I know PB&ampJ sounds wild to a lot of people. And fyi jelly is made from fruit juice and thickened with pectin. Jam is made from whole fruit and thickened with pectin. If its low sugar and made with whole fruit it cant legally be called jam so theyre called a fruit spread. The only cakes I know of which use jello are island cakes which I dont think is a primarily US phenomenon and they certainly arent very common around here. Ive never even seen one in person. These cakes are made to look like an island with the jello set around it to look like the ocean. Its tricky to pull off but the effect is pretty neat when its done well. Though I cant say I like the idea of eating one. Fluffy cake and jello dont seem like a good combination to me. I see several answers for your question about the name of the wiggly thing” JellO so I’ll answer your question about desserts. As far as a cake there is a poke cake” that is made using JellO. You basically bake a white or yellow cake poke holes in it pour the JellO in liquid form over the cake to fill the holes then put it in the fridge to set. Once set you frost the top with Cool Whip. When cut you’ll see the JellO as lines of color. If you do a multilayer cake you can have a different JellO color/flavor for each layer. I’ve typically seen red/green for Christmas but have seen red/blue in a white cake for 4th of July etc. It’s been awhile since I’ve had a poke cake. Thanks for reminding me that they exist. It is something that is made at home. It was very popular in the 1970s. If you would like to experiment you can look up jello mold recipes. If jelly in the UK is the equivalent of gelatin in the US I cant imagine that ever going in or on a cake. The closest thing to a jelly cake by your definition of jelly would be a jello mold in the US I think. Thats where you make flavored gelatin and add things to it like fruit or whipped cream. It gets poured into a decorativeshaped pan or dish and holds the attractive shape of this pan or dish when unmolded onto a plate. People even used to make jello molds with carrots celery other vegetables and add a layer of cream cheese to the top of the pan which would become the bottom when you unmolded it. I think between the 50s and 60s when jello was a new and interesting product. People tried to incorporate it into things where it really didnt belong. If you look online for old jello recipes youre bound to find some really wild and unappetizing dishes. Thankfully that phase seems to be over. With regard to an actual cake I know that people make fruit curd for filling between layers. Ive never made it but its like cooked fruit that you strain seeds or pulp out of until you are left with a smooth liquid. I think they use gelatin to make it firm and not runny. A circle of the icing is piped around the edge of the cake layer where the curd is going to go and then the curd is poured in. The icing acts kind of like the sides of a dish to keep the curd from running over the edges of the cake. Afterward the next layer of cake is set on top. It gets firm when refrigerated and the cake ends up with this yummy fruit filling that doesnt run or slide around. Pastry chefs can tell me if Im describing this correctly. But its the closest thing I can think of to having gelatin jelly in a cake here in the US. Your submission has been automatically removed due to exceeding the text limit in your posts textbox. Please shorten it to fewer than 500 characters not words including spaces and links to comply with rule #2. Afterwards contact us via modmail and well restore it. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* We call your jelly jello.” My favorite filled donut is Bavarian cream filled. Yum. Bavarian cream is like a custard or pudding but better! Spray cheese whatever the fuck that is made from??? needs more explanation ? what IS it made from? Youre confusing jelly with jello. Different things. Jello is the jiggly stuff and made from powder. Jelly is made from actual fruit. Jam has more fruit. Preserves are almost completely fruit. Marmalade is made from citrus. Jelly and jam are two different albeit very similar things. Jelly is made from fruit juice and pectin jam is made from crushed / pureed fruit juice and pectin. Depending on who is making them jelly or jam is used. Dunkin Donuts a major brand uses apple raspberry jelly Krispy Kreme another brand uses raspberry jelly. Its not uncommon for local bakeries to use jams. There are technical differences but in practice the terms are interchangeable. I worked in bakeries for more than a decade. The jelly in a jelly donut was a fruit filling. It wasnt the same type of jelly or jam that is spread on bread. We would get those fruit fillings from a food distributor in 20 pound buckets. Those fruit fillings tasted a little different from jelly or jam and had a different consistency not quite as jellylike. In the US jam has seeds and sometimes pieces of the berry or fruit while jelly has been through a sieve to have all of that removed. Jelly Jam and Jello are all different things here It must be jelly cause jam don’t shake like that! Jelly is made with juices. Jam is made with juices and fruit bits. Preserves are made with primarily fruit. They are jelly donuts” in some areas of the country and filled donuts” in others. When getting filled donuts” you need to specify what it is filled with. A jelly donut is a donut usually without a hole filled with a strawberry Jamlike substance. It usually has sugar on the outside. The jelly is not exactly like jam though. American jelly has pectin in it to make it congeal and become clumpy. It’s still spreadable though. A good jelly donut will have a mix of sugared donut and jelly in each bite instead of a stab of jelly in the middle. American JamSpreadable and smooth may have seeds or other fruit bits. Usually made of strawberry or another berry. American JellySpreadable and lumpy. Has pectin in it. Usually grape or really anything. Had nothing that resembles fruit in it. I believe it’s made from juice. JelloSolid usually product that is not very spreadable and does not resemble fruit in anyway. but may have fruit in it. It comes in a block typically. It has gelatin in it to make it solid. Jelly and jam are almost always eaten on bread or crackers or cake or doughnut whereas Jello can be eaten by itself. Honestly I’m trying to imagine how you would eat a donut filled with jello. The stuff in filled jelly donuts is definitely more jelly like than it is jam like. Preserves are what are put on top of different breakfast pastries. Jam is mashed up fruit and sugar jelly is no fruit pretty much viscous jello. It might not have anything but animal products from nature with fruit inspired flavor chemicals. Its a different beast from jam but they serve the same purpose. Skip the Jelly/jam/preserves problem… just get a Bavarian cream filled donut with chocolate frosting… The jelly that we use for donuts is like the kind that comes from a jar. Jelly jam preserves and marmalade are all variations on a theme main difference being the amount of fruit I think. The wiggly stuff is gelatin JellO and it comes in a box of powder that you stir into boiling water then chill to set. No fruit in that unless you put it in yourself. Technically is a fruit like chemical goo. Must be jelly cause jam dont shake like that. Jelly A fruit spread primarily made from filtered fruit juices. Jam A fruit spread primarily made from pureed fruit. Preserves A fruit spread primarily made from smashed fruits. Has large chunks of fruit. Marmalade A specific kind of preserve made from citrus fruits utilizing the zest of the fruit as well. Jello A gelatin dessert that is firm. Typically made from fruit. It is not spreadable. Jelly Donuts will have any of the spreadable fillings but will most often have Jelly or Jam. This is a great page describing the differences ~~I cant jelly this di~~ Nevermind wrong thread Ah interesting youre talking about jello you would love going to the midwest they have unlimited jello based desserts. Old song Must be jelly cause jam dont shake like that. jelly is smooth. jam has bits of fruit in it. the stuff inside of doughnuts is jelly or jam depending on the flavor. You might use jelly to mean something different in your country but in the US jelly and jam are similar but jelly is the smooth version. Jam has fruit bits in. Jelly donuts have jelly — fruit flavored sugar glop. Delicious but not jam. Jelly. There are many fruit spreads including curd marmalade butter as in apple butter preserves jam and jelly. The last three seem to get confused a lot. Preserves are the whole fruit. Jam is the whole fruit mashed up. Jelly is the strained fruit with no fruit solids akin to juice. Doughnuts do not have fruit solids inside them they are literally jelly doughnuts. If you’re getting jam doughnuts that sounds awesome!! Where!!?? Post 6 Did your school ever had a nonfederal or nonstate holiday? Unique or generous holidays and that sort? Basically if the school ever give generous or unexpected holidays that all other schools won’t have. If you ever experienced such holidays or others what was the holiday about? Like perhaps for example there was a big accident happening in your school that forced the students on a holiday for a day or so until a response is heard. Perhaps other unusual holidays such as the entire school building used for a very big venue or the school’s anniversary or the school founder’s birthday putting the entire day in a holiday who knows or I am aware there’s no holiday in the US for that date like that of most countries but worth asking anyways during Election Day where the school was kind enough to give a student a holiday etc. Yes 🙌 and it’s a funny story. We had a day named for a student who in 1975 had once gotten a perfect score on his SATs. Apparently the principal at that time had promised the students that if anybody got a perfect score they would make a school holiday in their honor. And this guy did. We were still celebrating his achievement in the 90s when I was there. Not a stand alone holiday per se but… Growing up in rural central PA Monday after Thanksgiving was basically a no school day for the first day of buck season. At some point they started just making it part of Thankgiving vacation. I went to public school in NJ but we got off for the Jewish High Holidays because of the makeup of the area. We also sometimes got off if a hurricane was predicted but sometimes it didn’t hit so we just got a day off with light rain My kids’ previous school always somehow managed to schedule a grading day or inservice day the day after Halloween. I thought it was brilliant. Not *technically* a holiday because the teachers still had to come to work but they didn’t have to deal with all the children who had stayed up 4 hours past their bedtimes overdosing on cheap candy. I for sure have a unique one. I went to a K8 school named after Rivendell from Lord of the Rings. It was a small private school and the idea was that it billed itself as a sort of safe haven for fellowship and learning before students continued their voyage to go to high school/destroy Sauron’s ring. Daytoday it was just a quirky name and didn’t get brought up except that I was there when the original Lord of the Rings movies were being released in theaters. Every release day the 7th and 8th graders would get to leave school and take a field trip to see the latest movie in the theater. I was too young for Fellowship but I saw The Two Towers and Return of the King that way. It was awesome. My husband is from NOLA and would be off for Mardi Gras. illinios has Casimir Pulaski day a polish revolutionary war figure celebrated due to the large population here. i believe all school districts take the day off or at least mine did. they would schedule any out of state field trips that weekend to avoid crowds since other states would still be in school Due to the high Jewish population we got the Jewish holidays off. Basically meant a full 5 day week of school wasn’t the norm untill February. Sept and Oct had Jewish holidays Nov had Election Day Veterans Thanksgiving December had the holidays January had MLK and Midterms/halfyear class finals We also had built in snow days so on years with little to no snow we basically got an extra week off the week of Memorial day. My kid’s school in Pennsylvania did. They would always close for the first day of deer rifle season affectionately called Dead Deer Day” on the Monday after Thanksgiving. Pretty much all the schools and several businesses in SouthCentral PA did this. I grew up in a rural area. The first day of deer hunting season was an unofficial holiday at my school. In San Antonio where I spent 12 of my 13 years of primary and secondary schooling students and teachers at nearly all schools in the area get a holiday for the during Fiesta. I went to Jewish private school so we had every major Jewish holiday off plus the federal holidays They usually don’t call those holidays they call them school closures.” But yes they happen. The most common reason for school closures is weatherrelated—for example hurricanes tropical storms ice storms blizzards etc. But sometimes there are school closures due to problems in the school itself—gas leaks water shutoffs or burst pipes/flooding broken air conditioning or heating rare to cancel for this one and more common to make students and staff just show up and suffer honestly storm damage collapsed roofs etc. Not my school but my friends high school. Our city hosted a 3 day music festival every year. Kids would skip school on the Friday and Monday of the festival. Friday because there were shows that day and then Monday as a recovery day. The school struck a deal with the students that they could get the Friday off if they came to school on Monday. In exchange theyd have to come to school on Columbus Day to keep the number of days in the school year consistent. Everyone agreed because no one liked Columbus anyway. My friend went to a small private school so they could do things like that. My public school would never lol It wasnt exactly a holiday but the Tuesday after Labor Day was when the school year started. It was the day teachers used to set up their classrooms for the new school year but students didnt come to class until the Wednesday after Labor Day. My school would be closed on Election Day because it was a polling station. There would also be snow days and that was determined by each school district. So some might be in session but others wouldn’t Of course. Different state holidays for one. But even at the local level within a state the days will differ. Religious holidays based on the makeup of a specific area my kids had the major Christian Jewish and Muslim holidays as well as some Indian holidays as well. Most of the country is not going to have those. The city where my wife is an educator uses schools as polling places so she has tomorrow of primary election day but here in my town they do not so my son does have school. Boston schools have Evacuation Day on March 17. It is supposed to commemorate the day that the Revolution drove the British out of Boston but really it is a thinlyveiled excuse to party on St. Patricks Day which by a shocking coincidence happens to fall on the same date. when I was in school there was a large enough Jewish population that the district would just give some of the Jewish holidays as days off school to avoid too many absences. Yeah. I want to a tiny Catholic school in Washington DC. They let us have the day off every year so we could go to the March for Life which is an antiabortion demonstration. Disclaimer my high school does not reflect my own beliefs or values. I went there because I was scared of public school. Growing up in the Chicago suburbs we had the first Monday in March off for Casimir Pulaski Day. Its a state holiday but no one outside of Chicago seems to know who he was. He was a Polish cavalry officer who trained and led the American cavalry in the Revolution Chicago has a massive Polish population so celebrating a PolishAmerican war hero was popular. Fun fact Medical analysis of Pulaskis skeletal remains found many markers associated with female biology indicating that Pulaski may have been assigned female at birth or was intersex. We also had the Jewish High Holy Days off due to the large Jewish population in our school district. We always had the first day of deer season off. And school didnt start until after the huge county fair. We have random days off each year. Usually one or two a month towards the end of the year. They are snow make up days. If we have no snow we don’t go to school those days. If we do have snow days then those are the make up days. We get out for the threat of ice any snow and last year was out for weeks for a hurricane. We also missed a ton for snow even though we only got about an inch. It got really cold afterwards and iced over. A lot of our roads couldn’t be scraped because of the integrity of the road was compromised. I think we ended up missing close to a month of school. My rural school system closed for a day for the I just moved to Kentucky but I heard the schools in Louisville get time off possibly a whole week off for the Kentucky Derby each year. Its such a big event with the streets so crowded that the kids were having a hard time getting to school. So they made it a thing that they close the school during the Derby each year. At least thats what I was told be someone who lives here! My kids went to catholic school. They got off when the Pope died Do teacher work days count? Some schools in rural areas of PA have off for the first day of deer hunting season. My schools had days off for Jewish holidays which isnt super unique but my understanding is thats less common outside of the northeast. Our county fair was always held two weeks after school started for the year so we got off the first Friday of the fair for Fair Day in middle &amp high school. In Florida we have ~5 Hurricane Days per year where if theres inclement weather the students stay home. It takes a lot for the county to declare that one is being used though and if they go over the alotted amount of days out of necessity then the end of the school year is pushed back to account for the extra missed days. I have kids in two different school districts long story. The long breaks were the same winter Thanksgiving spring breaks but the start days and last days differed by a couple of days. Also in California we have Cesar Chavez day off and Lincolns birthday off too which I dont think other states have. Also because of all of the disasters weve had in the last few years mostly wildfires we have emergency days I think 4 built into the school year so if theres no natural disaster they get 4 random days off per year My university had three in a oneyear span when previously it was known for NEVER cancelling class. We had a hurricane in northern Georgia hundreds of miles from the coast a snowstorm once again in GEORGIA so that practically never happens and the murder of a student on campus. That was a chaotic year for us. The Chinese president came to town and traffic was crazy so they were like y’all don’t have to come for like two days Our football team would always advance to the state game which was held on a Friday in a city about 90 miles from where we live. They cancelled school on state Friday” so everyone could go to the game. My kids school district is off on Rosh Hashanah Yom Kippur Diwali Eid alFitr and Eid alAdha. There are also nine teacher workdays with no school for students. Like perhaps for example there was a big accident happening in your school that forced the students on a holiday for a day or so until a response is heard. When I was in 7th grade there was a rain storm one weekend that damaged the roof over the first grade classroom. Their ceiling collapsed. The 7th grade classroom was just below the first grade classroom and there was damage to our ceiling as well. The first graders got to go home that day and the ones that couldnt be picked up spent the day in daycare with any kindergarteners not in class we still had halfday kindergarten at the time. They found a spot for the first graders to have school. Us 7th graders spent the next 6 months bouncing wherever we fit parish hall school library local public library within walking distance of the school a nonaffiliated preschool across the street from our school etc etc while they dealt with the asbestos remediation and then the repairs to the first and 7th grade classrooms. They figured that us 7th graders could better deal with the loss of routine than the first graders probably not wrong. It was an adventure. Anyway just first grade had that random day off. Multiple times a bunch of schools have closed due to air quality from wildfires. Not unique to the schools but not something that the entire state much less country dealt with. Similar to a snow day they just wanted as few people outside breathing in smoke and ash as possible. Also as close to a school holiday as you can get while still going to school... when I was in 7th grade the Chargers our local football team were in the Super Bowl. Some radio show hosts had an event down at the stadium where people could be part of a hometown pride and stuff. People were talking about going enough that there would have only been half of the 7th and 8th grade classes at school for the first couple hours of the day so the 7th and 8th grade teachers decided that if anyone did go they could be late without getting in trouble and wed have a chill day. Everyone whether we went or not got to wear pajamas normally wore uniforms got to bring sleeping bags so we could sleep at school had to be at the stadium early to be part of the bolt some parents came in and make pancake breakfasts for us and we spent the day chilling and watching movies and napping and stuff. Part of my school burned down over Christmas break so the break was extended by 2 weeks I think. We get the first day of hunting season off up here in the Upper Peninsula. 😎 Weve had a couple. We had an eclipse day recently. That was fun and I got to actually see the eclipse. We had a day a few years ago when the Canadian fires made the air quality to terrible to go outside. We have a lot 0f kids who walk so they didnt want them out. We got a day off this school year because a pipe burst and flooded a bunch of the second floor. It happened after school and I was still in the building. They came on the announcements and told us all to evacuate immediately! We had a day off two years ago after a kid brought a gun to school. He never intended to hurt anyone at school and it wasnt found until the end of the day. They decided to give us the next day off as a mental health thing since we were all pretty freaked out. Most schools in New Jersey have a fourday weekend in early November for the NJEA Teachers Convention. Yes. And then they even had some for teacher workdays when teachers worked but students were off. I went to private school and we had an extra day off the Friday before presidents’ day simply because an old head of school wanted a February break. November 15 first day of deer season. Not a real holiday but probably 40% absence that day. In some parts of my state teacher conventions are coordinated with youth hunting days. My school would get Jewish holidays off despite the fact that there were no Jewish kids there most of the school was black some Hispanic and only one Jewish teacher. The first day of deer season of course. I grew up in NY and we got a 2 week winter break. I now live in Florida and my kids don’t have that. But in my hometown it was just an accepted fact that a lot of the families made a month out of it and took the week before and after the break off. It was great we would spend the whole month in Florida such a nice break from the cold. I mean.. we had a few snow days 😂 I live in Louisiana and we get Mardi Gras break which is like a whole second spring break. The rest of the country doesn’t get that. We also get Fair Break which is a four day weekend we get when the county fair is going on and is separate from Fall Break. I grew up in Maine and we had Patriots Day off as did Massachusetts. Commemorate the battle of Lexington and we were the only two states that recognized it. A lot of businesses were also closed including banks even though it wasn’t a federal holiday. Catholic school for me so yeah I grew up in Berkeley CA and we had International Women’s Day and Indigenous People’s Day instead of Columbus Day off. We’d get weird looks when we showed up shopping or going to a daytime movie from people who weren’t aware of our schedule. There was a day each year that the farmer boys would drive their tractors to school. All the local schools shut down for eclipse day last year because I live in the path of totality and it was going to happen right at dismissal time. In Australia the state of Victoria has the day off for the Melbourne Cup a horse race. In Massachusetts they get Patriots day off. The Boston marathon is held on this Monday because of it. Schools in my city and most of the surrounding counties have Jewish holidays off. I dont think thats particularly unusual though. I went to a catholic school we had none government holidays NYC area schools get off for jewish and new Muslim holidays. Dont know too many other areas that do that. Hummingbird Festival shut down school in my town. They used so many of the schools facilities that there was no way to hold school on that day. I live in a big college town where many kids have parents who are grad students or professors. The local public school system takes a week off to correspond with the colleges Spring Break. We needed so many snow days made up that they instituted Forgiveness. 9 this year So that’s like a holiday…from learning which many kids can ill afford Growing up on the Gulf Coast we had a lot of half days off for various cultural or religious events. In the fall we got out for Fair Day then in spring we got out for the week of Mardi Gras and Ash Wednesday then later for the Blessing of the Fleet I went to a public school in Western New York but we started having one or two Jewish holidays off each year. Such a high percentage of students would be absent on those days that there was no point in trying to get anything done and teachers couldnt give tests so the school just decided to make them holidays. In New York City kids get a day off on Chinese New Year for the same reason. My kid once got a day off school bc air conditioner wasn’t working at the school Arizona I live in a largely agricultural area in Ohio and several local school districts close for our county fair week as there are so many kids that participate in those activities showing animals etc All public schools in Brooklyn and Queens used to be closed for Brooklyn Queens Day on the first Thursday in June. Now its city wide but is a conference day kids off but teachers go in. There are a lot of schools where students get off election day but thats not to give students a break. Schools are used as polling places and we cannot have school in session while members of the public come in to vote. Aside from this we get Labor Day Veterans Day Thanksgiving break Christmas/New Year Break Presidents Day MLK Day Spring/Easter Break and Memorial Day off. If we get a lot of snow we get the day and sometimes the week off. No not growing up but now my kids do. We get dewali off bc we a very large indian population in my town There are a set amount of snow days set into the calendar. If another day because a snow days then you gotta go to school on the preplanned day. No snow day get the preplanned day off. Yes. When I was in elementary school I lived less than a mile away from the Indy 500. The race takes place on the Sunday before Memorial Day. The Friday before the race is Carb Day. It’s the last day that the drivers can test drive on the track. It cost ten dollars when I was a child to go on that day. We got that day off because many of us would get pulled out of school to go if they didn’t. As kids my friends and I use to use my Radio flyer red wagon to tote people’s coolers from the parking spots sometimes a mile away from the track to the track for $5 $10 or $20 depending on size on both Carb day and Race Day. Between 4 of us we’d make a good $700$1000 over those two days. In high school our prom was always on a weekday since it was cheaper to rent the hall etc. we always got the day off to get ready etc. It was marked as prom day on the school calendar. Even the elementary school kids got off of school that day. There were a lot of Jewish kids at my middle school so we used to get a lot of random Tuesdays off that was nice. We also got Election Day off each year since the gym was used for elections The little town I grew up in has a huge free fair every year and we got four days off in October to celebrate. If you went to Catholic school youd usually get some of the lesser know Catholic feast days off. I feel like December 8th was one of them. My Catholic elementary school gave the boys only the day off for the first home game of our local triple A baseball team. SMH Kind of. We had the first day of Rosh Hashanah and Yom Kippur off despite Jewish holidays not being recognized as federal holidays. There were a lot of Jewish people in the township to the point where there was an entire separate school for the more devout kids. Nonfederal nonstate but County wide Lundi Gras and Mardi Gras days off. I can’t count Juneteenth in Texas since school was out but it was a big thing there before it became a Federal holiday a couple years ago. Which is still kinda weird to me… In New Orleans the kids get the week off for Mardi Gras. Courts also close for most of that time. The elementary school just outside of Chicago where I taught got Casimir Pulaski Day off Sort of. Every year our town has two massive car shows to honor James Dean one in my town called Duck Tail and one in the neighboring town. Its always held on a weekend in late August or September. Usually we would get that Friday off of school mostly because it it was extremely crowded and hard to get to some of the schools especially the middle school by the park but it is treated like a holiday in a lot of ways. Wed go and look at the cars sometimes the teachers offered extra credit if we went. One time I had an assignment where I had to take pictures of the cars its always been just kind of a town holiday to honor James Dean. No if it wasn’t federal they wanted to get rid of the day off. In my four years of high school we never even had a spring break because of snow days”. I remember that my sophomore year the only days we’d get off were the federally mandated days off. Pioneer week and marine biology week were my favorite. Pioneer week we did activities all week that were about the gold rush. Marine biology week was when the local university set up experiments and teaching events all week where we’d learn about marine science. This was in elementary only they didn’t have these things in jr high upwards. NYC schools have so many holidays We used to have a day off or a half day off for the state fair. closest thing was a hurricane delaying start of school for a week which we had to make up throughout the year. But that affected several schools. Not just mine. In the Bay Area some of the presumably richer schools get a whole week off in February for ski week.” I went to a poorer school in the area where no one could afford to ski and never heard about it until my coworkers started talking about what vacations they were doing with their kids for ski week. My school gave us off the first day of deer hunting season because no one showed up anyway. We definitely had a few! I went to a private school though so they had much more leeway. I think some of them were technically grading days for the teachers but I remember a Spirit Day” a Diversity Day” and a Teacher’s Appreciation Day” among maybe a couple others. They’d all get cancelled in years when we had extra snow closures though. I went to a Jesuit college and not being remotely Christian myself all of the feast days we got to take off were a pleasant surprise. Not my school but there was a school nearby that used to close for the week of our state fa which was held in their town. I was once told that it was so the local kids could work at the fair but as an adult I have noticed that not many teens are working there. So in my opinion it’s probably just avoiding transportation problems for school buses. The Great County Fair would get us nearly an entire week off of school. We’d be back in school from summer break for like 2 days then get the rest of the week and of course the weekend off. The reasoning being every single 4H kid wouldn’t be showing up to school anyways HS kids would be ditching to go right across the street to the fairgrounds so may as well call off school. Nowadays they got smart and just start the school year the week after the fair. I went to Catholic Schools that gave off on certain Catholic holy days. These werent government holidays Besides that there was one particularly unusual holiday I remember vividly. On April 22 1980 there were explosions and a fire at a toxic waste dump in Elizabeth NJ. Schools on Staten Island where I lived were closed and everyone was advised to stay indoors because of potentially dangerous fumes. My friends and I of course used the unexpected holiday to play some pickup baseball in a nearby park. In at least a few districts in Louisville KY they get the Friday before the Kentucky Derby off. The Oaks are run. I’m guessing because lots of teachers would be calling out. We have teacher workdays soooooo We had two random days per year where the teachers had professional development classes together but the students had no school. We also had one week when we had flooding that was so bad that it wasn’t safe for people to try to travel so they cancelled school. We’ve also had closures due to fires more recently. Grew up in a bougie town about a three hour drive from the mountains we got a week off in February called Ski Week.” The district still does it but now it’s just Instructional Break.” I’m sure they still want you to ski that week and show up for the other ones. We lost kids twice when I was in high school. Once to a boating accident and once to a car accident. Both times the two days immediately after were off. We are off this coming Wednesday June 11th for King Kamehameha day. My school district gave us the day after Halloween off if Halloween landed on a weeknight SundayThursday. I went to private school so yes. Every month we had a teacher in service one Friday and wed have off. We also got out at 1145 every Wednesday. But the biggest was Junior year when we had a new principle. Our school didnt have central ac only window units. Monsignor came on the intercom and said its too hot were closing early today and will come back in a week. So yeah he cancelled the first week of classes. If Frederick MD schools let out for the entire week of the Frederick Fair. Back in the day when most everyone around here were farmers all the kids ended up skipping school that week anyway to show their stock so the county decided to make it a holiday week so kids didnt have to choose between school and work. When the baseball team won the world series we got the day off for the parade. I went fishing We got a half day when a guy showed up at the other high school 10 mins up the road on May 4th with a gun and a stormtrooper mask star wars day became the unofficial senior skip day every year citywide lol… does that count? Yes the school closed for the Fiesta Flambeau Parade downtown. Many businesses closed too mainly for convenience since the streets were shut down for the parade. I think its still a holiday for the city employees. The school also closed during the Stock Show held in February so students raising animals could attend and show without being marked absent. The first day of hunting season is a school holiday in Ohio. In Louisville KY some schools are closed on Friday for Oaks Day. Boston has Evacuation Day on March 17. It was just an excuse to have St. Patrick’s Day off ☘️ The school I teach at now takes the first Friday in September off for the county fair. They figure wed have so many kids out anyway it would be a wasted day to try to teach. Does closing for hurricanes count? We always got Good Friday off but it’s not a state or federal holiday A school near my dad’s house has the day off on opening day of trout season. Apparently so many kids were skipping that day to go fishing the school just made it a holiday. I lived in a heavily secular Jewish area. I feel like we had a lot of Jewish holidays off. So while it wouldn’t have been state or federal mandated due to the population some of the major Jewish holidays were no school days. My kids school gets a ton of extra days off. Teacher workshop days conference days teacher planning days teacher grading days prep days team building days. We didn’t have nearly as many when I was a kid in the 90s but we still had some. I went to a small HS that tended to have a good basketball team that usually made it to the state tournament which was always on the other side of the state 6ish plus hours away. When the team made the tournament theyd usually cancel school for 2 days because between the players families and people that would go to the tournament there was less than half the students left. This was always contingent on not using the built in snow days over the winter. Grew up in Dallas. We got free state fair tickets and a day off to enjoy it. They used to have high schoolers on a different day from everyone else but now I hear that its changed. Some of the rural schools in my area cancel class on the first day of deer season because they know half the students won’t be there. We get a random day off in Spring that just happens to always line up with Good Friday. Totally disconnected though don’t worry. I grew up in a rural farming area of Western Pennsylvania so harvest days and hunting seasons were excused absences along with assisting with the birth of livestock and we had Drive Your Tractor to School Day. Mardi Gras My school was a polling place so we got off every election day. Even though it was a public school we always got Holy Week off as our Spring break. We also got off for Rosh Hashanah and Yom Kippur. We had 2 Fridays off late in the school year. There were large festivals in bordering counties and they just cancelled school for them. It’s crazy to remember that. 😂😂 The schools where I am closed for funerals. Two students died the same week both with siblings in the same system so they schools closed for their services so friends and teachers could be there. They also closed when there was a plumbing issue. Nothing fun. Patriots Day is technically a state holiday and schools technically have it off but it’s also the first day of April Vacation. This is partially by design because it’s also the day of the Boston Marathon. Doing anything including getting kids to school is a logistical nightmare in the suburbs west of Boston. son went to an independant private school for k5 and transferred to a local catholic school for 68. our family noncatholic was surprised by our school and other nearby catholic schools getting st patricks day off. In rural western Pennsylvania many people appear to be under the impression that the first day of hunting season is a state holiday. Source the amount of parents who call into the office asking for an explanation of why their kid has an unexcused absence for that day. For elementary and part of high school I went to a Christian school. They would have one week off for a Bible Convention which all of the teachers and administrators would go to. In Osceola County Florida all the schools are closed for Rodeo Day I didnt but my sister did when the NFL football team won the Superbowl. Snow days. Also had a guy plan to shoot ill the school so he was camping in the pond overnight and died of hypothermia so school was closed then. Recently a parent killed themselves in a parent teacher conference so they closed. Lots of gun violence closures. The kids in the county above us had their county fair in September and got off the whole week. Not us. Post 7 Truckers and people who drive long hours whats the creepiest or eeriest or just downright weirdest thing thats happened to you over the years? I feel like this would be an interesting discussion Truck driver here. I was driving in northern NJ early in the morning. Around 2 AM. There is a section of I78 that crosses over I287. I saw a silhouette of a man running right to left across the four lanes. I was heading east on I78 His legs were moving super fast and he wasn’t touching the ground. He disappeared in the copse of trees and bushes to the far left of the roadway. Not a truck driver but hubby and I were in Florida driving from Clearwater to Orlando. There was a cop on the freeway chasing a car. The car was winning the race and was out of sight within seconds after a bend in the freeway. We had the cop in sight the entire time. After rounding the bend we saw a car on the shoulder of the road with the hood open and a man looking as though hes trying to fix the car..... It was definitely the car that was being chased. The cop did not catch on and flew right past. Absolute genius Please bring back Art Bell… Was listening to music on Bluetooth late at night. Very rural area not a soul in sight. Over the speakers comes a sermon. Hellfire and brimstone. Turned Bluetooth off and it stopped. Tried the radio instead and it was back again. Decided to go without music for a while. Not a truck driver but I was on highway 33 in West Virginia heading to Columbus OH at 3am. Very rural area and not a soul in sight. Off in the distance I saw a guy on a bicycle come out the woods ride across the highway and into the woods on the other side of the road. I couldn’t actually see the bike but I could see the reflectors on the wheels. It was weird. Where did he come from and where was he going. There was nothing around for miles. See Ive seem plenty of shit like silhouettes and shadows at the side of the road or black dogs that werent really there. The creepiest thing? Middle of nowhere late at night parked on the side of the road a running car with no one in sight. i dont drive long distances for work anymore. But… once i saw a mountain lion run across the highway in a region where they did not exist ive seen dead people laying on the road and beside the road. From car accidents. They get out of the wrecked car with injuries and then drop dead. Car door still open. ive seen motorcyclists run over and crushed right in front of me. i saw a crop duster crash once. probably he survived it wasnt a horrific crash. I did not stop cuz it was a long way off. i saw a station wagon do cartwheels. Every speck of dirt and dust came off the station wagon undersides as it cartwheeled down the highway at 65MPH. I can still see it in my mind in slow motion like the day it happened. It went right past me coming the opposite direction. Lucky for me it never crossed the center line. I once pulled over because i thought i saw a hundred crabs crossing the highway In front of me. This was in an area where theres no such thing as land crabs. when i got out of the car and got a closer look i saw it was a hundred tarantulas crossing the road. No idea what was going on there. Not a single car around to witness it with me. I was all alone. When they were all gone i got back in and continued on. Never seen anything like that again. I once saw some dude walking down the road wearing only a shirt and a pair of shoes. Naked from the waste down. I did not stop to ask what was going on. I once was driving down a divided 4 lane highway when the opposite side ended. My side kept on going. There was no signage and no construction going on and no caution barrels anywhere. But the road just became a two way 2 lane road without any warning. The car next to me in the left lane was suddenly without warning on the wrong side of the road without knowing it. And there was a near miss with oncoming traffic. 15 years ago I was driving on the 395 heading to Bishop Calif 48 foot trailer delivering frozen food Saturday afternoon light traffic Im in town one of the few stop lights going thru lone pine. Im stopped at the light. It turns green. I move slowly thru the intersection. Their is a bar on that cornor. Or used to be. The town drunk decided to end his life and dove under the rear tandem of the tractor. I didnt see it. I heard people screaming. I stopped he was waded up under neath the tandem wheels dead. They cleared me of any wrongdoing their were witnesses . A lot of them actually . It bothered me for years. Seeing a person underneath my tires. I think about him often. Late night pizza delivery driver when I was in college. I drove one of few Chevy sparks in town. One pulled up next to me we did a little race he got in front of me and we both stopped at the red light. He got out and high kicked over his head got back in and went off into oblivion when it turned green. Never saw it again not even during the day when all the other sparks were driving around. I now drive 140mi/ night for a career job. Its 34am when I get to town. In the last 20 miles someone was driving really slow on the highway. Id go pass them get ahead for a while then out of nowhere theyd come flying get a head of me and keep it up till he was pretty far ahead. Then hed be slow again Id get around him rinse and repeat. When we were close to town I was going to pass him again when he suddenly played pong in his lane. Like straight up yanked that wheel hard left right left right left right. Chose not to pass &amp just stay behind while he kept cycling through speeds. But when we got to town limits he was going 25 in a 45 previous miles had been 60mph limit that he was going 3045 for so I went to get around him. Instead he paced me and we stared at each other. Id try to get back or ahead but he kept up and stared. I U turned left town used the rural side streets to get to the far side of town and went home from that way. Gunshots drag racers meth heads and hookers. Nothing out of the ordinary really. Not weird but having everything turn a fallout shade of green driving through Wyoming was unsettling. I’m following this post I love this topic. My dad was a truck driver he has some funny stories. But he drove mainly in the tristate area and almost never more than 812 hours. Coming south on US29 near Amherst VA I somehow zoned out. Next thing I knew I was coming down the hill on US501 approaching the Banister River bridge coming into Halifax. I had no idea what happened in between those two places whether or not I had to stop for the traffic light in Brookneal or anything. When I made it to South Boston that night I slept like a rock. Drove a truck for several years. One night on I80 in Utah I swore I saw a Kangaroo hop across the interstate. Another time on I79 in Pennsylvania I remember thinking ok just a few more miles to the next exit!. What felt like 10 minutes went by and I thought wow really shouldve seen it by now? Had I missed it? Turns out I drove ~50 miles past the exit and hadnt remembered any of it. Both times I decided it was time to pull over for a nap. Not a truck driver but i have a story. I was driving across upstate ny for work I think i was near Oneida. On a clear road on a clear day a small amount of blood randomly landed on my windshield. About half a cup to a cup. My theory is it had to do with a bird of prey but I have no idea how specifically that could happen. Not a trucker but a night owl. This was 20ish years ago. Buddy of mine had a private cabin on a lake out 20 miles or so. Was 5 of us in my vehicle we were loaded up and were going to go get drunk and howl at the moon. Middle of nowhere 11pm or so winery vineyards all around the area we were at no houses. Couple of dudes just walked out onto the two lane road and watched us as we drove past. I served to avoid hitting them. Didnt attempt to flag us down. Just walked into the road and stood there. No clue why they were out there or what they were doing but its really goddamned weird to be out at 11pmmidnight hanging out on a two lane county road with no vehicle flashlight or anything else in a bunch of fucking empty grape fields and woods. r/creepyaskreddit I’m late but I have a relative who drove cross country for a firework company The freakiest thing they saw was when they were driving across a desert late at night in northern Arizona when they saw a bunch of flaming spheres flying across the highway ahead. Turns out there was a brush fire a few miles away and the embers ignited tumbleweeds which were rolling all over the place. Not ideal when you’re shipping fireworks lol I was driving a moving truck from Michigan to Dallas TX. I pulled off for diesel somewhere in Arkansas after dark. The freeway exit was eroded dirt almost like I went off road. The truck stop was super chaotic and made no sense. Two guys were crashing two cars into one another until one finally stuck to the back bumper and they drove off. Then I went in to pay and some sweaty guy was at the lottery machine chuckling to himself and looking around saying okay... all righttt.... One guy screamed about how hes never stopping there again. When I went to leave people kept walking in front of the truck. It was like a dream. Before Little Rock heading west from Memphis. I fell asleep in the dunkin drivethru on my way to my ship once and they left me there for a little bit. I woke didnt know where I was. Come to think of it I cant remember if I even paid. Truck driver here. Ive seen dead bodies from where people comitted suicide running across the interstate. Idk if anyone can find the news article. The worst was Orlando area Jan or Feb 2020. Guy ran across eastbound lanes of I4 and got hit by a semi. I was stuck in the traffic for hours. Once they opened the highway back up his body was split into two under these yellow police tarps with blood and body parts all over the highway. You could see his fingers sticking out from under the tarps. I was driving in NE Arkansas for work. There was a truck with a beat up old twin axel trailer ahead the car in front of and there was a little sedan in line behind me. We were going around 5055 mph when one of the two wheels came off the driver side of the trailer. It bounced around under the fender and off the other tire before flying out towards the back. It bounced right in front of the first car then again right in front of me. Other the windshield of the car behind me and struck the driver killing them. Creepiest thing is always the random people out in the middle of nowhere. Are they ghosts? Is my mind playing tricks on me? Did their car break down do they just live out here? They never flag you down and they never seem to stick around if you stop to check things out. It was about 4am. Halfway between the airport where I started and the middle of nowhere where I was headed I saw the weirdest light show off to the south. I’ve seen a lot of distant thunderstorms but this was different and the sky was mostly clear. These lights were green. I looked online as soon as I could to see what the hell was going on in that area that could have caused those lights but there was nothing about it anywhere and apparently no one posting about it on socials. Ive seen at least a hundred people do something stupid enough that if I hadnt been hauling an empty trailer or paying really close attention I wouldve hit or killed them and Ive only been a trucker for a little more than a year. The lack of self preservation skills is weird as hell and goes beyond stupidity in many cases. This also i feel like would be a great question for Aussie Truckers. God knows what those road train drivers have seen Post 8 What is a reasonable price for a historical style American flag? Asking as an American looking to put a yearaccurate flag on my 1815 house. Im looking to buy a new production 3x5 ft star spangled banner style American Flag 17951818 particularly one that is high quality to withstand a range of weather year round. Unsure what a reasonable price is as Ive seen $10$150. Im looking to find a reasonable price and I specifically am looking for something made in America. I will note that I have never hung an American flag outside of my house and would be happy to learn if there is specific etiquette around doing so if I should remove it during bad weather certain holidays etc.. I will be mounting it on the front of the house or porch havent decided yet still have to purchase the mount. $17.76 You should remove in bad weather and either bring it in at night or light it. No idea about price Are you anywhere near Baltimore MD? Because if you are you can buy a flag and have it flown at Fort McHenry. Cost is around $100 but well worth it IMO. They also give you a certificate that reads this flag was flown at Fort McHenry National Monument on XX/XX/XXXX. They have modern reproductions of the 15 star/15 stripe flag that would have flown at Fort McHenry during the Battle of Baltimore. Read and follow the Flag Code. It isnt law but it is proper etiquette. I dont know about cost or where to get one but Probably around $100 for a historically accurate 1815 flag. Maybe a bit more as its been probably 6 years since I had to buy one. It should be 15 stars and 15 stripes made of cotton or other natural fiber cotton will be the easiest to get. No nylon or synthetic material to maintain the historical accuracy. The cheap flags will undoubtedly by made of nylon. The 15 star/15 stripe flag is *the* Star Spangled Banner. That is what was flying over Ft McHenry when F. S. Key wrote the poem. That style flag was in use from 1795 thru 1818. It is the only iteration of the US flag to have 15 stripes. Originally they wanted to add a star and a stripe for every state which was fine when they only had to add 2 stripes Vermont &amp Kentucky but when they looked to update the next design they realized thered been 10 states admitted to the Union since the last update. It would soon look like pinstripes so the decision was made to simply represent the original 13 states with the stripes and update the number of stars. Oddly enough even during the War of 1812 there were actually 18 states. The flag just hadnt been updated for some time. It did not hold the national symbolic significance until after the war thanks mostly to Keys poem so they didnt bother updating it very frequently. I worked at a living history museum / reconstructed War of 1812 fort for close to 20 years. One of my duties was to order the flags for the reconstructed fort where we had to maintain historical accuracy as much as possible. We had 5 flag poles and if memory serves it was around $500 per order. Id order new flags every 2 years to save on costs. We also only flew those flags during the sites public hours so they lasted longer. We also had 2 US flags one modern and one historic and 6 service/POW flags at the visitor center. Those were nylon and we had to order new every year because they were out 24/7 for 3 seasons of the year. A simple google search for US flag code will tell you all the rules about displaying it but the basics are take it down during bad weather make sure its illuminated after dark and replace it once soiled or torn. I bought our flags from a local shop. Be sure you specify Star Spangled Banner with 15 stars and 15 stripes in cotton &amp they should be able to do it for you. One year I did have a different place and they screwed it up and we got 15 stars on the normal 13 stripe flag so I learned to specify exactly what I wanted. They don’t seem to have latched onto the 15stripe flag but be aware that flying the Betsy Ross flag will be seen as a sign of the farright by some. No clue but absolutely loveee the idea Note there is a US flag code you can look up. If the flag becomes too warn. or tattered beyond repair look up your looking BSA scouting troop and give them the flag. They have a flag retirement ceremony that the scouts will do either as a troop district or council as part of teaching respect for the flag. I’d expect to pay around $30$50 for a good quality flag. If you’re looking for hand sewn with eraspecific materials $150 sounds about right. Flag prices are so varied because there are different materials. The really expensive ones are either made of natural fibers for historical accuracy or of high denier the measure of thread density by weight vinyl which is the most durable. It depends on how often youre going to use it and it what weather. For a flag youll be flying on your house and taking it in for really bad weather a nylon flag in the $50ish range should last you a good while. Honestly you can get one for almost any price but youll get what you pay for. For a standard nylon 3x5 flag i wouldnt spend more than 2025 bucks. As for etiquette just always bear in mind its an important symbol not just a decoration. Keeping that in mind will get you through most things that would come up. I think that’s a cool idea. Looks like you’ll need the 15 stars / 15 stripes version of the flag. You can get a nice quality modern materials US made for $50. I imagine there are different price levels with ~$20 for printed polyester and the higher end being for like hand sewn replicas using historical techniques. It depends what kind where its made and size. For the house probably at most $20 to $50. AmericanFlags.com some. They are kind of pricy but we’re running a sale soon https//www.americanflags.com/flags/historicflags/evolutionofoldglory13star49starflags.html These are Eder brand flags good quality and should hold up decently in outdoor weather About $3.50 [removed] So many roles try the Boy Scout or the besty Ross association. The vfw hall for Christ sakes the internet can quite you. [deleted] Post 9 Every cop is an officer? I notice that every cop in America irrespective of his rank is addressed as an officer. Coming from a Commonwealth nation this is strange. Does that mean those random cops on the streets with a walkie talkie catching criminals are all potential candidates for the rank of a Police Commissioner/Cheif of Police? Every cop can be the police chief? This subreddit is for civil discussion political threads are not exempt from this. As a reminder * Do not report comments because they disagree with your point of view. * Do not insult other users. Personal attacks are not permitted. * Do not use hate speech. You will be banned permanently. * Comments made with the intent to push an agenda push misinformation soapbox sealion or argue in bad faith are not acceptable. If you can’t discuss a topic in good faith and in a respectful manner do not comment. **Political disagreement does not constitute pushing an agenda.** If you see any comments that violate the rules **please report it and move on!** *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Police ranks work differently than military. There is no hard divide of enlisted and commissioned like in the military. Yes. Officer is the honorific for the base rank. Higher ranks are Sergeant Chief Detective etc. And yes anyone of them could move up the ranks to become police chief one day. Particularly in towns where that is an elected position. Dont think of it as officers vs enlisted like it is in the military. ...I dont know what youre talking about with the candidate thing. Its a normal hierarchy. All police are police officers. Any one of them might climb the hierarchy to the top. Most wont get anywhere close. Theoretically yes but we use the word officer” as a term of respect for police like if you get pulled over you might say how fast was I going officer” … it has nothing to do with that person’s rank” like it would in the military. Any police man or woman is officer”. Im not sure why youre saying coming from a Commonwealth nation when police officer is commonly used in the UK. Police officer is the basic police rank. They are trained and in service. Higher ranks can be addressed as detective Sargent lieutenant captain chief. Deputy and sheriff are also other common titles with various uses. The people in all of these roles are commonly referred to as police officers. Does that mean those random cops on the streets with a walkie talkie catching criminals are all potential candidates for the rank of a Police Commissioner/Cheif of Police? Possibly there is no officer/enlisted line like in the military. They can work their way up by training and passing exams and police chief is usually an appointed positionl with the candidate chosen by the mayor and/or city council from a group of experienced prospects. Its a legal status not a rank. They are police officers. Officers of the law. Well supposedly. Whatever. It’s different. Officer just means someone who carries out the law basically. Sheriff city police FBI are all officers. Cop isnt an actual title and police sometimes dislike being called cops. But fuck the police. Yes a patrol cop can conceivably become Chief I *think* it is Officer detective different grades within this rank sergeant lieutenant captain chief different grades within this rank deputy commissioners commissioner. Officer is like the entry level rank. Well no they can’t just become Police Chief. There are ranks. They have to work their way up just like any other job. But if they want to move up and people like them they absolutely might be able to become Police Chief someday. Also there’s two different types of officers. There’s your city police and then there’s a county sheriffs office. Small towns don’t have city police even some cities don’t and rely on the sheriffs department to patrol their streets and respond to calls. Half of the towns in my county don’t have their own police force anymore. Officers encompasses both groups instead of cops city police and sheriffs/deputies county police officer is just a generic thing that is basically entirely unrelated to military ranks. whether or not specific law enforcement agencies even have ranks can vary wildly between localities and in general most law enforcement is local and varies greatly statebystate. for example in my state basically only municipalities or other institutions like universities have police departments. counties have elected sheriffs and sheriffs deputies. the state has a detective force georgia bureau of investigation and the state troopers which basically only enforce traffic law. other states can be widely different especially in other regions. Some cops are deputies some are troopers there are constables. All cops different departments. Police Officers are called officer” because they hold one who holds an official post entrusted with a responsibility in the government. This stems from the AngloFrench and *ofice* place or function divine service and the French got it directly from the Latin *officium* a service kindness favor an obligatory service official duty function business ceremonial observance.” So yes every Police Officer is an officer. You’re probably confused because English legal tradition makes distinction in military contexts between Officers and Enlisted personnel. Now the exact history and nuance of this is way to much to go into in detail in a single Reddit post but the primary distinction is that Enlisted personnel aren’t considered leadership” and most importantly are not considered as representing their governments. Yes yes senior ranking Enlisted personnel will supervise and lead lower ranking Enlisted personnel. But that’s not quite the same thing. It’s all very medieval really. Well cop isnt a technical term its police officer or peace officer.. there rank isnt officer like in the military.. a police officer could be a sargent detective captain or uniformed officer among many other ranking/titles An officer is anyone who has taken an oath of office they are sworn officers. Failure to carry out their oaths used to carry higher measures of accountability to go along with their increased agency as representatives of the government. So yes police are supposed to sweat an oath to uphold the constitution but most accountability structures have been stripped of power so the oaths don’t mean anything any more. *Officer* is short for *police officer*. In some jurisdictions the proper address would be *deputy* as short for *deputy sheriff*. The equivalent in a Commonwealth country might be *Constable*. I lived in a village that had a constable for parking enforcement and other minor offenses. More serious crimes misdemeanors and felonies were handled by a County Police Dept. The county PD had sergeants Lieutenants and Captains below the Asst Chiefs and Chiefs. There may have been corporals. There were certainly sleeves with one two or three rank chevrons along with those for years of service. State troopers state police force will have several ranks from trooper to captain and higher up. While I had an older cousin on the New York City PD I have never been in law enforcement nor had a closer relation in one of those jobs. Anybody with half a brain defaults to *officer* when encountering the police. Anyone with arrest powers and carrying a weapon is a *peace officer.* Most American police departments use officer in the same way Commonwealth police departments use constable. Both as the generic term for a member of the service and as a title for the lowest rank or group of ranks such a member might hold. As for their eligibility to become Chief of Police/Commissioner that depends on the specific department. In many police departments the head of the department is a nonsworn i.e. without police power position appointed by the mayor or city council. The holder need not have ever served as a sworn law enforcement officer. But yeah pretty much all police officers start their careers of on patrol duty out on the street in uniform responding to calls for service and arresting bad guys and after some time are able to move into other positions whether investigation detectives special teams SWAT K9 Motorcycles EOD etc. or supervisory typically starting with the rank of Sergeant and moving up through the ranks that way. Oh its all made up play acting soldier aint it? The patrolman who answers to a sergeant is an officer because like everything else in US policing its all about selfaggrandizement of the unqualified and substandard. Post 10 What grade did y’all stop having recess? I know someone whose daughter doesn’t have recess in 3rd grade which is crazy to me. I assumed most people had it at least until middle school. 6th. I don’t know anybody who stops having recess in elementary school. Usually recess is connected to lunch and is an extended time after eating where you can go outside and play. Sometimes there are also recess breaks in the morning and afternoon for younger kids. It is developmentally unsound to take away recess in elementary. This trend of not giving kids recess is a recent development and not happening everywhere. My grade school just built a new playground last year. Itd be stupid of them to remove the kids only opportunity to use it. To answer the question I had recess up until 7th grade and thats when we started having gym class everyday. We stopped in middle school. I cannot imagine what is so important that they can’t send third graders outside to run off some energy a couple times per day. 8th grade was the last time we had it graduated HS in 05 We stopped calling it recess in grade 6 but there was a break of some kind before lunch all the way through 12th grade. It just got shorter iirc it was 10 minutes in middle school and 15 in high school I went to a K8 elementary school and we had recess all nine years. High school. I find it rather shocking they would keep third grade kids inside all day. 6th grade. When I was in school 6th was still a part of elementary school and we had two recesses until moving on to jr high. Its wild and sad that a third grader doesnt have recess. Its outlined in our district policy that recess is mandatory to allow for free physical movement. Im not sure if its a policy because of state law though. I think we stopped after 5th grade Through 5th grade. 6th grade was first year of Junior High. We stopped after 5th grade Seventh grade in middle school. 3rd grade is way way too early unless they have gym several times a week. 5th grade was the last time I had outdoor recess but through 8th grade we had a half hour before or after lunch depending on scheduling where we got to hang out in the gym and play knockout or four square or just hang out in the bleachers. Not having recess in 3rd grade doesnt seem like a good idea. Kids that age still need time to take a mental break and burn off excess energy I had it until middle school 6th grade. Idk if not giving kids recess in elementary school is a new thing or not but its really weird to me regardless. Do you know what replaced it? We stopped in 6th grade. Middle school though technically there was lunch We had recess up until high school. In middle school we’d usually try to go to the library or a teacher’s classroom to avoid going outside especially in winter but we still had a recess period. I can’t imagine being an elementary teacher without the kids having recess. They would be climbing the walls all afternoon. Seventh grade when I transferred to a public middle school. 7th grade or middle school but we had PE and could go in the field at lunch if we wanted. 5th grade which was my last year in elementary school. Had PE instead starting in middle school High school. When to a private elementary/ middle school. Thats insane! For their teachers sakes I hope they had guys class every day! I had recess until middle school which was 7th grade 9th grade. We had recess all through middle school and elementary school. I wonder what prompted the loss of it for 3rd graders? My understanding is that while its good to let the kids outside for a while recess is also how schools give teachers their mandatory breaks. They stopped at high school because every teacher had a planning period with their mandatory breaks worked into that time block. Is your 3rd grader switching teachers or classrooms throughout the day in a way that would allow the teachers to get their breaks in? Either way making 8/9 year olds sit and learn all day with no breaks of their own feels like a bad decision to me. My grade school was K6 so when I moved to middle school that was technically the end. However we still got to go outside or in the gym after eating lunch there just wasnt a playground or a field. I had recess all the way through highschool. I had no idea other places didnt do it. Did yall just eat lunch and then go back to class? Didnt call it recess but we did have breaks all through high school in the 90s. I had recess through 8th grade. 8th grade was that last year for me. It stopped being called recess when middle school started but functionally it was the same? 1520 minute break where you could pretty much do whatever you wanted. So I guess we never stopped having recess Edit wow I’m surprised how many people are saying they did stop at some point. Was your guys’ only break during lunch then? This post summoned all the K8 combined school people lmao jeez I didn’t know there were so many of you. Where I come from recess was something you had in Elementary school K5. There was no recess in middle school it was basically mini high school. Though I think I know of one middle school in my county that still gave kids recess it definitely wasn’t the norm. We stopped in 7th grade but even then through 12th our lunch periods were long enough that we had plenty of free time to hang out after eating. And my high school had an enclosed courtyard in the center of the building so we could eat outside or walk around outside during our lunch period No recess for elementary schoolers is insane. Kids literally NEED unstructured free time to give their brains a rest and let off their energy. That’s so sad that not everyone gets that Recess became gym at 5th grade. Gym was an activity decided by a perverted coach. Private Catholic School. Never had recess only Dance and Gym This is odd to me too. From when I was in high school in the 1990s to even now my high school always had a roughly 15minute period between second and third period out of six roughly around 10 AM for an extended break that one would consider recess” we called it nutrition” as it was a snack period. That’s in addition to 3035 minutes of lunch” at around 121230 PM. I had it all through elementary school twice a day if I remember correctly. Middle school didnt get recess but we all had to take gym and we got plenty of time at lunch to eat and to socialize a bit. Throw all those elementary school kids outside on the playground with minimal adult supervision and let them learn how to play and socialize in real life! We had it all the way till high school in addition to formal PE so thirty minutes of recess and an hour of gym a day. It still really wasnt enough activity for some kids but it was manageable. School now sounds nightmarish. Keeping a bunch of eight year olds seated almost all day is unreasonable. Back in my day we had recess AND gym class all the way to the end of 8th grade. In HS we had gym and we could try out for sports if we wanted. I would like recess at work. I would spend it napping but thats my choice. Australian here. We stop having recess when we stop going to school Seventh for us. I think the local private school stopped at fourth or fifth. 4th grade was the last time I had a dedicated recess period every day. In 5th grade those of us not in band got like 10 or 15 minutes of recess on Fridays if the weather was alright and whatever lesson the teacher had been teaching didnt run long. Fifth grade was the last year of recess for me. Sixth grade started middle school sometimes we’d have a special day where a teacher would cancel class and we’d play kickball but that was only on special occasions or celebrations. 7th grade 7th. From 8th12th we had Physical Education which was mostly structured although once in a while we got what might be considered recess where we could do any/no physical activity in the gym or outside. 6th was the last year for it and pretty sure we only had one recess instead of three that we had in K4 5th was the last year for us. I think through eighth grade. 7th grade Yeah for me it was middle school 8th grade was the last year but Im in my 40s. Starting middle school 7th grade 6th 5th grade but 68 they have their gym time outside if weather permits 6th grade was my last year stopped at 7th grade. I went to a K8 school where all grades had recess and also a dedicated middle school 78 where there was no recess Technically high school but I stopped in middle school. We had the option to go outside to play sports or sit on the blacktop in middle school but it was only during lunch and when it was warm outside. 5th my primary school was K5. Middle was 68 and we just had 30 min lunch. We did get an hour of P.E. and 2 years in high school is optional. Where we’re at k5 is in one building and they have recess every day and gym every 4 days. Middle school is 68 and they have gym every day. High school 912 and 9 and 10 had gym every day. So it’s just 11 and 12 they don’t have any time to move around. But at that age they usually have all kinds of after school activities. 7th grade jr. high school so in arizona we didnt have separate elementary and middle schools it was just k8 so we all got recess at my school. then i moved and went to an actual middle school and there was no more recess until you got to 8th grade for some reason??? like it was a treat for the older kids?? idk High School 9th grade though for Middle School 6th8th grade recess wasnt exactly the same as it was more just an after lunch break time that you could go outside to play and as it got closer to summer people did use it for that but was more often used as last minute finishing up homework or as just a kind of extension of lunchroom socialization. Recess ended in 7th grade but we still got to go outside after lunch for a little while. Middle school which where I am starts in 6th grade. Lockhart TX. 7th grade was the first year without now that they changed the schools up there it’s 6th grade. Middle school 6th grade — it got replaced with study hall 4th grade was the last time we had an actual recess period. Once we hit 5th it turned into gym class. I think that was every other day all the way through senior year. 5th grade age 10 but we were allowed to go outside during lunch. 7th grade because Junior High was in the same building as the High School. The elementary school I went to was from PreK to 6th grade. My elementary school went up to the 6th grade so it continued until then. Middle school technical as we got to hang out on this square of asphalt called the black top” but there was no playground equipment only tables. In high school we had to stay in the cafeteria we couldn’t even go outside after we were done eating. In my district k5 has recess and 6th grade gets a break right after lunch. Yikes. Middle school doesn’t start until 7th grade in my children’s school district so my son had recess this year. This upcoming fall I highly doubt they’ll have recess for 7th grade. My daughter was in 3rd this year and she had recess and will also have recess this fall in the 4th grade. Kids need to move. Play. Interact with each other. Not having recess in 3rd grade is honestly baffling to me. It’s so important for kids to be physical outside of just a gym class setting. Middle school which started at 5th grade for me 7th grade. High school. I went to a small Lutheran school with K through 8th grade in the late 60s and early 70s. A proper recess on a playground was over after 4th grade but for 5th &amp 6th grade we were given ten minutes after lunch to run around in a big grassy area behind the school. When I was in school we had two recesses in K3 one in grades 4 and 5. Then in 68 they didn’t call it recess but there were 1015 minutes after lunch where we could relax walk around some people played sports. In the school I work at K6 it’s fully up to the teachers if they want to give their classes recess. There just isn’t staff to cover recess otherwise since the district got rid of aides in the classrooms. So K and 2nd gave it pretty reliably. Once it got nice out security would usually take out fifth and sixth grades as long as there were no fights. I don’t think first grade ever got recess. Third and fourth sometimes would. I don’t agree but I’m not a teacher there and have no say. I went to a 18 grade school and as said we did have the break after lunch and maybe another one in 7th and 8th grade. We would just stand around and talk but I think we still played handball and 4 square in 5th and 6th grade. The 14 wing was across the playground and they had all the standard playground things but there was no crossing over either way. 5th grade was the last one we had recess. 6th grade high school graduation we got a 15 minute break in the morning and a lunch break. Its mandatory in elementary here California apparently not in middle but all the middle schools we looked at have it. I had it through middle school. 5th grade was the last year I had recess. In middle and high school we didnt have recess and werent allowed out of the cafeteria during lunch period. My oldest is finishing up 7th grade. He had dedicated recess until 6th grade. In 7th and 8th grade they are encouraged to go outside for about 15 minutes after they eat their lunch but arent forced to. He says he usually goes out and walks. No idea how it is in the high school. Im a teacher and where I live its illegal to take away recess. They have to have 20 minutes per day. You cant even take it away as a consequence for bad behavior. 7th when we went to middle school. 7th grade was when it stopped. Up until sixth grade Stopped after 5th grade when moving to Middle School 6th grade for me Fourth grade was the last year officially. Sometimes the cafeteria workers would let us go outside if it was nice out and we finished eating early in grades 58. But that wasnt a true recess. Middle school we had outside time. There wasn’t any playground equipment so we either played a sport usually football or just walked and talked I went to a catholic school for 1st through 8th grade and had recess during all of them. High school was grades 9 through 12 and although it was quite recess we hung out in the parking lot during lunch. Stopped after 5th. Had PE after that through 9th. I stopped having recess after 4th or 5th grade. Through 5th grade which was when elementary school ended for my school district. 6th for me California. My kids’ district just extended it through middle school 78. But I think it will be more of break in MS rather than actual get outside and play recess. ETA recess was separate than lunchtime. For both my kids and for me we had a morning recess and then time after lunch to play. 5th grade was the last year I had recess. We did have PE in middle school and up though Formally my last year I had recess was 5th grade. But through 8th grade I had time during my munch period to use as recess” if I didn’t to sit inside and talk with my friends after we finished eating. 9th grade unless you count gym as recess 6th was the last year of elementary school where I grew up but they have since shifted the school system a bit and now I think its 5th. Not to say older kids dont get breaks its just not recess. Its not called that and there is nothing to play on like swings. 7th grade for me. Elementary was K6th. Jr. High was 7th8th. Then High School. Yes Im old. We called it Jr. High back then. We stopped in 5th so as soon as we hit middle school we didn’t have recess anymore I had recess until 8th grade and we had a a 510min morning break until 4th grade. From 6th8th grade the boys lost recess privilege probably more than half the year. It was literally the first reaction to anyone doing anything wrong. \ Someone talked during class? boys lose recess. \ Someone was mean to someone else? boys lose recess. \ More than one person didnt do homework? boys lose recess. losing recess meant sitting in silence inside and staring at the chalkboard you werent allowed to put your head down and sleep either. If anyone talked or slept we lost recess the next day too. It was awful and it only made things worse. It was a selffulfilling prophecy the more we were kept inside the more people acted up during class then the more were kept inside on and on and on. 6th By high school recess was called brunch. I had it through 8th grade bc I went to catholic school. My oldest is just finishing kindergarten and doesn’t have recess bc they don’t have a yard at school. They have brain breaks” or whatever they want to call it. Also snack time. I had recess through 8th grade. My county generally stops at the end of elementary 5th but one school the last year or two have been piloting recess for middle schoolers. We had recess all seven years at my K6 elementary school. Never. In high school we had a 45 minute lunch to do whatever you wanted. Wait are you saying that at some point american school children no longer have breaks between classes? These kids need recess. It stopped after 5th grade for me but I still think we could have used it in middle school. Who is making these energetic 3rd graders stay inside literally all day? Maybe thats another reason more kids hate school. It wasn’t recess exactly but after lunch in middle school we were sent outside until the lunch period was over High school My kids’ schools in California did K5 20 minute morning brunch” this is recess where the cafeteria is also open for snacks 40 minute afternoon lunch/recess 20 minutes eat for eating/playing 68 grades 18 minute morning brunch”. Free time/play time cafeteria open for snacks. 37 minute lunch/recess 9 12 grades 15 minute morning brunch 40 minute lunch used for eating club meetings spirit activities in the quad. They actually do danceoff etc and physical movement activities lead by leadership students clubs spirit etc So in one way or another from K12 my kids have all had academic breaks with allotted time for free play/activity. 6th grade was the last year. 1991. After elementary 6th grade for me was over we no longer had recess. In middleschool and highschool we had a free period if our grades were good. Never. I had recess outside time after lunch all the way through to the end of high school. We had recess up through 5th grade and then in middle and high school we could go outside during lunch. 6th grade when I went to middle school I stopped in 5th grade because I went to a school where 5th was part of middle school. If I had stayed in my actual elementary school I wouldve had it in 5th and stopped in 6th. We still had PE multiple times a week in middle school though. High school kinda but really only because there wasn’t a significant outdoor space at my high school. In elementary we’d always go out to the playground after lunch. In middle school there were outside basketball courts and if the weather was bad we were allowed in the gym. Recess ended in 6th grade with middle school. Question from a curious European does this mean you have no breaks in between classes in High School or are they simply just not called recess? Up to 8th grade I went to a 612 school and always had the option of going outside for recess. I dont know if the upper grades did. The high school I went to we got a full period for lunch and could go off campus. We were right next to a park and technically there was nothing stopping us from having recess if we wanted. 9th grade 5th grade was the last grade I had recess. I think the idea was in junior high school and high school recess gets replaced with elective classes. Art music foreign language etc. All the way until I graduated. We had 40 minutes for lunch. We also had an open campus. Usually wed wolf down our lunch as quick as we could and get 30 minutes to go play basketball or maybe some softball tennis stuff like that. Mostly basketball. Id call that recess. I teach in a PK6 elementary school. No recess after 6th grade. They have 10 minute break and 50 min lunch students ARE allowed to play basketball and volleyball at the middle school as the courts are right by the quad when they hang/have lunch. We stopped recess when elementary school was over. 6th grade was the last year for me 6th grade was it! 8th grade was the last year we had recess. But in High School we could go outside during lunch and hang out toss a frisbee play hackie sack etc. We still had recess up through my senior year. The only difference is that when I was in high school we just did stuff in the gym instead of going outside. Post 11 Prior to mass transplant migration into Houston and Charlotte was the original accent of these cities different to what it is today? Author PureChampionship3993Post Text And i know these two cities have been popular destinations for transplants for decades but I’m just wondering if the old Houston and Charlotte accent sounded like everywhere else in rural Texas or North Carolina etc Yes. Much more southern. I at least know its true of other NC cities experiencing migration like Raleigh so Im sure its the same for Charlotte. You can hear a similar accent to what you would have in nearby exurbs. Yeah Houston had a few flavors. Theyre mostly dead now Houston had the pretty standard east Texas accent you can still hear it with people who have been here forever. I’ve lived in Houston my whole life but sincey family is north east Texan it’s a little bit different of a twang. If you go out to places like Richmond to the west you’ll Hear it more I’m willing and to go out on a limb and say that Houston only lost twang in the past 40 years. The East Texas accent was dominant in Houston up to the 1980’s. Overtime the dominant accent in Houston and Dallas to a certain extent although the Dallas accent was always different than the East Texas accent has evolved into what I call the Hydrocarbon Accent. Listen to an executive for any company involved in the oil &amp gas industry that is headquartered in Dallas Houston Midland/Odessa or even OKC and you’ll hear a distinct accent. Listen to an interview with Beyonce who grew up in Houston in the 80s/90s not that long ago! She has a very pronounced Southern accent even now after shes lived outside of Houston for decades. That being said in every US city Black and white people have different accents from each other so maybe this should be taken with a grain of salt. The younger generation of those Houston/Dallas/Charlotte/Nashville families who have lived in these cities for generations do they speak like the children of transplant peers or maintain the southern accent? Post 12 Americans are always complaining how bad the roads are where they live myself included but is there anyone here who lives in a place with good roads? What is it like? Is there anyone here who likes the roads at their home and have nothing to complain about? What is it like and where are these places with great roads? I think the roads in Maryland are generally very good. Every time I go over the state line into Pennsylvania the roads are noticeably worse there. I live in Michigan Im unfamiliar with the concept of good roads. Our state flower is the orange construction barrel. Good roads is relative. I’ve driven in a few countries around the world and after that shit I’m not complaining about US roads ever. Im in Florida compared to other states the roads are in good shape. We dont get the snow ice freezing temps and salt on roads that causes massive potholes and corrosion. Granted traffic sucks in the urban areas but thats true for most metros. I drove to Dallas for the eclipse last year and those Texas roads were dang good. I was so sad when I crossed the state line back into LA. I was sad and angry when I crossed into Mississippi. Our roads truly suck. Im in Maryland parts of the state the roads arent bad. But the construction never ends I feel like the roads in Minnesota are pretty good. Most of Saint Paul excluded though it has gotten way better. I notice a decline when I go home to Wisconsin. I feel like roads are one of those things you only notice if they are bad. Places without real winter. Arizona roads are good because we don’t have a lot of the freeze/thaw that screws up roads in snowy places. I think our roads are pretty good here in Virginia. It’s probably not a coincidence that we also don’t get the same weather extremes as do other states though. Roads here in NC are generally pretty good. Roads are generally maintained and pavement smooth. Highway pavrment is replaced before ot becomes too bad. Road conditions dont really negatively impact my driving experience. Washington isnt awful or at least not the Seattle area. The awful part is how few reflectors there are on the road for when theres rain. Cant see lanes for shit. Come to Texas Arizona kinda. The weather is just so constant we hardly have potholes in metropolitan areas I live in the Southwest corner of Virginia. I’m guessing it’s the combination of low population/traffic combined with a wealthy state but our roads are *nice*. I can drive for weeks without seeing a pothole. The state highways that is. Many back roads aren’t even paved. Kansas has incredible roads. Virginia and Maryland are pretty good too. DC and Pennsylvania however… whew. Bad. Best roads I’ve ever been on honestly Colorado. Especially once you hit the mountains. WOW!! Oklahoma easily the WORST. Even on their highways I’m dodging potholes and see crumbling shoulders. California has good roads especially considering the amount of traffic and wear and tear they get from tens of millions of cars. A mild climate and high taxes are a good combo for roads. I’m in the PNW. The roads out here are pretty alright. Might have to do with not using salt idk. I really came to appreciate our roads up here after moving to Mexico for a bit where the roads are like the surface of the moon lol The old freeze and thaw cycle. Anericans should visit other parts of the Workd sometimes to see how bad roads really like. I think our roads must be pretty good just because whenever I leave the state I notice how bad the roads are. Northern states have real problems with heaving due to freezing. The south has better roads because they don’t salt in the winter. It is a nice change of pace not having to swerve to miss potholes when driving down here. As someone that has been to Germany AND Texas I can confidently say that MOST Americans’ complaints are unfounded. German roads are equal to the same quality as Texas roads. In fact a LOT of European roads are worse than most American roads. ….Except for Michigan. Those poor denizens may as well remove all the asphalt and just drive on gravel. They recently like within the last year or so repaved a couple of the main thoroughfares in my town. They also within the last week repaved the worst stretch of freeway between work and my house. The driving is so smooth in those areas. Theres still bad sections and the construction the freeway... oh my god.... I drive 32 miles to work it takes me 35 minutes to work. It also takes me 35 minutes to get through a 1 mile section of freeway on my home because of some construction tomfoolery... But the nice parts well theyre nice. Oxford Mississippi had impeccable roads when I visited a year ago I live in Texas and our roads are really good especially where I live. No fear of potholes or driving around in my lowered car SE Texas. Roads are usually very good. The problem with places that have good roads is that they are always under construction. I grew up in North Houston I45 was under construction my whole life. I live in Minneapolis and the roads here are amazing although the entire summer is construction In Northern Virginia. Great roads and highways. Im actually impressed how often they get repaved. I lived in Texas for a while and the local roads were always in great condition. Traffic was ridiculous but the roads didn’t have potholes for the most part. The roads in the Southwest are actually fairly good. Being baked in the sun with low humidity and nearly no precipitation seems to allow roads to keep a long time. North Carolina Virginia and Maryland tend to have pretty good roads. Traffic can be pretty bad around the DC suburbs though. Texas has lots of very good roads especially tollways around Dallas too but also a few perpetual construction sites e.g. I35 really depends with georgia but for the most part the roads are alright in my opinion. but also with my tires and car i don’t seem to notice even if the roads are bad First America is really big so we have more roadway to maintain than most countries. Second. Much of the Northern and Central United States isn’t so cold that everything is frozen all winter…rather it has frequent and rapid freeze/thaw/refreeze cycles. That really stresses the roadways and leads to heaves and potholes. I just got a grind and repave on the 10 mile main road in my area so it’s nice and new last week it’ll have a couple potholes by spring I’m certain. My top international place... Germany. Bless you people and your immaculate little side country roads narrow though they might be My top US state... Actually a tie between California maybe Northern part Maryland and Texas. Texans can eternally burn for highway frontage roads but they ARE nice roads. Some of them are good where I live in southern Maine. But the quality often changes when you go over a town line. My road and the roads closest to me are all good. People ride bikes recreationally here a lot. When I was growing up my same road was trash and only people who lived on it came down it I’ve lived in several place including Maryland Florida and California and never thought much of the roads until I moved to Atlanta. The roads are horrible. My car is not ok. Florida has mostly new roads and good quality. Pretty much all the highways in Orlando look brand new. There is a lot of traffic on them but the roads themselves are very modern and nice looking. Atlanta regional roads and interstates are really pretty good but city of Atlanta roads can he terrible depending. I live in Minnesota and our roads are very good compared to those of other states. When I lived in Las Vegas the roads were great compared to what I was used to. Havent been in years so maybe thats changed. It’s everywhere but it’s in the rich neighborhoods. The neighborhoods that have the most expensive homes have the smoothest roads. My hometown has good roads there just arent enough of them so traffic is awful Colorado had nice roadways. Louisiana’s are the worst I’ve experienced. New Mexico is a close second for worst roads Absolutely. I live in a midsize city in North Florida. No traffic average speed is 35mph the rest is dodgeable because…no traffic and the average speed is 35 mph. I am from Orlando. I’m honestly convinced all of the politicians have the road construction companies paying them to do nonsensical projects while ignoring real issues. Tearing up the same exact section of road 5 times in 2 years and then ignoring massive potholes that are actively damaging any vehicle that goes over them. Im in NY. My roads are fine until you get down south to Albany. Albany is shit. But north of Albany I generally have a good experience. I hate the roads in my area until I cross over into another place and Im like JFC these roads suck! Ive lived in various states and various countries. In my observation the places with shockingly good roads are also the places where people are constantly complaining about how bad the roads are. The places with *bad* roads are *also* the places where people are constantly complaining about them. I dont think the objective state of the roads makes a lick of difference. Great roads in general means locals have high expectations that are often disappointed. Poor roads in general means locals have low expectations and are often still disappointed. Roads age and wear so the roads cant all be in exactly the same state of repair there is variation. Variation means there are always exist local roads that are noticeably worse than others no matter how good the roads are. The actual toll roads in Illinois are generally pretty good. But get off the highway on state roads and many are worse than what we have in WI. And thats saying something. None of the northern tier of Great Lakes states have what Id call generally good roads. The states without a sustained winter tend to have better roads in my experience. I think that the roads are pretty good in the Olympia/Lacey/Tumwater Washington area. I drive past crews maintaining them. I live in the KC metro in the part with good roads Johnson County. This is in stark contrast to crossing into MO/Wyandotte County and instantly hitting potholes and crumbling roads. When I visit Salt Lake the roads are usually pretty good. I live in North Carolina. There are definitely some roads in my city that are aging and kind of bumpy but not bad. The only time I’ve noticed a really bad road was driving on I95 into *SOUTH CAROLINA*. It honestly feels like you go from a relatively smooth experience to a coarse cheese grater. TDOT started a repaving project on a stretch of 27 near me that may as well have been the surface of Mars. Now people are bitching about the construction. Ill take the delay if it means my insurance doesnt go up and my doesnt leave my body every time I drive south on 27 lol. Yes the roads are pretty nice though it helps when you have two seasons winter and construction season. I hit a pothole so hard one time in a back road going to class I walked with a limp for a day. That’s all The roads are fine here in Oregon and across the PNW in general I’ve found. There were potholes in the Midwest that you could probably take a bath in Iowa they literally cut out the bad sections of highways and relay them every summer. PA definitely takes the case for worst roads and y’all don’t plow your snow worth a crap either I think the further south u get the better the roads will be as the seasons of cold and then hot do a number on the roads. The roads in Naples Florida are always super smooth anywhere in Ohio they’re trash. Even when they pave they get bad again in like 23 years it doesn’t last and I think that’s because of the temperature changes Oregon had nice roads. Surprisingly roads in AL are pretty smooth. I say this as someone who grew up in GA. SC has the shittiest highways in the country. I live in Massachusetts but grew up in Michigan. Michigan is ridiculously huge and is just recently recovering from decades of economic downturns. For the total miles of paved roads they have a limited amount of money to spend. When they do spend they do it as cost effectively as possible including shutting down major highways in one direction at a time for up to a year. Massachusetts is ridiculously small and very wealthy. If we spend the same amount as Michigan per mile we can spend more than 7 times as much per mile. And because Massachusetts is wealthier we can more easily spend money on roads. On top of that there is no way anyone in Massachusetts would put up with major highways closing completely for months. Detours maintaining the same amount of traffic and access to all businesses are mandatory. Massachusetts roads aren’t perfect but comparatively they are pretty dang good. And we have Rotary’s!!! Edit typo Chicago has two seasonswinter and road construction I live in rural California and they fix our roads every summer so generally they’re in good shape. No potholes. Some cracks but they get filled in all the time. It’s nice. Inland empire California Spain. Great roads roads in Houston are pretty terrible Chattanooga TN within the downtown/ city limits seems to have very well maintained roads in my opinion although since I live/work along a road that connects to a major tourist attraction theres probably a little bit of government bias going on *Not counting privately maintained roads since those are obviously a grab bag. That being said the past decade or so here has seen multiple major infrastructure projects to rebuild key pain points in the road network. If the city keeps growing rapidly we might be back in a pickle a few decades from now who knows? The whole SNAFU of how the 24/75 interstate reconfiguration had to be split into multiple years long phases due to budget issues... Yeah Im not even going there. I no longer live there but Lubbock was the best driving experience I’ve ever had in my life. The highways are of good quality the traffic is nonexistent beyond certain events and the highway goes throughout the city in a very convenient way. Its not a good place to live but the driving was always a pleasure Iowa is pretty great. Wisconsin is good besides the drunk strips. The highways you get on to go into the nice areas/going towards SC are okay It all depends on the budget and priorities. I’m in a wealthy area with a lot of winter homes bad medical care and tourism. The roads are paved and the lines are visible. It’s normal. The traffic cops roam in packs to race each other at 100 miles per hour on 57 lane roads because they’re bored. In other news we don’t have adequate public transportation and the cost of living is incredibly high. Florida. Western Arkansas. Our state highways are in pretty dang good shape with the exception of a few railroad crossings. Nobody wants to claim responsibility for maintaining them. Both the Hwy Dept and railroad say it’s the other entity’s job. Kansas has the best highways in the usa. Im not sure why because Nobody lives there. Las Vegas!! Its very unlikely that youll run into issues like potholes. The roads are typically very smooth and if theyre not all that smooth trust theyll be repaved before too long. The only thing people might find unlikable about the roads is that theyre not split by white lines but by small squaretype reflectors every few feet. Im assuming its because of the super bright sunlight. But Ive never seen those anywhere else. I live in AZ. The roads are always nice and any needed repairs after a monsoon are always done quickly. Theres no long drawn out road closures and cones up for eons like other states Ive lived in. But I also attribute that to there not being a freeze/thaw cycle. Its easier for roads to stay in good shape when they dont have to deal with constant water and weather changes. As a northerner I was astounded by the quality of the roads in North Carolina. I assume because of the lack of a constant freeze/thaw cycle. Cottonwood Pass from BV Colorado to Taylor Reservoir is probably one of the nicest roads youll be privileged to drive in the US. And less than 5 miles away lies Italian Creek which will kill you. Colorado has always seemed to have good roads and incredible snow/ice clearance. Texas has pretty good roads on the whole. You see a noticeable difference in quality when passing into New Mexico or Louisiana. There are definitely rough patches in some cities but that is entirely dependent on the municipality. Nothing on the level of shithole roads I’ve seen in Louisiana and Mississippi. Kansas has good roads. Rural Texas my house sits off a highway. Its always well taken care of. Rural enough that its not full of traffic. Yall are experiencing the toil of living in a big city where your road maintenance is a small piece of a larger concern. I moved from WA to CA. When I got here I was always impressed by how great the roads are. On the other hand people from here constantly complain about them. I think complaining about how bad the roads are is universal though they are actually worse in some places than others. I live on a gravel paper nonofficial street that is really more a glorified extremely long driveway. There are so many potholes that its like some kind of live action video game to get to the road. The main road it connects into btw is paved but part of the edge/shoulder collapsed in 2019 so the town put up a bunch of cones then ever larger barriers and jersey barrels and also stop signs stop signs with lights signs warning of a stop and one lane road ahead. Theyd come by every year to touch up the signs. People starting knocking over the cones/barriers on purpose. Then right before Easter there was a MIRACLE and they spent all of 6 hours to fix the broken road. I think it took them longer to pull down all the cones and signs. So yeah no idea. If you live somewhere with freezing winters youll likely have terrible roads because of the freeze thaw cycle causing potholes that need repairing every spring. If you live someplace warm where roads seldom freeze in the winter then youll likely have pretty nice roads. Indiana’s roads are pretty decent except within Indianapolis. Crossing over to Illinois there’s a very apparent decline. Wisconsin is a step above Illinois and Minnesota has much nicer roads than all of them. I drove extensively around Oregon and Northern California a few months ago and all the roads were in excellent condition. I’m from SoCal and back in the day we had really great roads. They started cheapening about a quarter century ago or so but some still exist. I’ve also noticed that WY has really good roads and AZ has pretty good roads overall. It makes it very comfortable to go long distances. Even a crappy car is quiet inside on them. You’re not dodging stuff all the time either where I live we literally drive like we are drunk to avoid the holes in the roads. People just like to bitch Oregon seems good We still complain in Texas but they’re pretty solid. Cross over to Louisiana and it’s a night and day difference. Like you can tell when you cross the state line My county has good roads I believe at least the Freeways. You can tell when you drive from Orange County into LA County exactly where the county line is it is wild the big difference. Texas is pretty famous for having great highways. You can actually hear the difference between states when you cross into New Mexico or Louisiana. It goes from a smooth quiet ride to being very loud and sometimes bumpy. Our highways are also super clean. The famous Don’t mess with Texas” slogan is actually an antilittering campaign about keeping our roads and highways clean. So state maintained roads and highways are very nice and clean. County and city maintained roads are hit or miss depending on where you are. Obviously going to depend on how much money your county or city has. Ive lived in South Louisiana and in Texas. People in Texas complain about the roads. They have no idea. Honestly I think our roads are surprisingly good in West Virginia. I see lots of upkeep. I used to live in a suburb of Denver that wasnt actually a town/city and was/is in fact a giant housing community. So its basically one giant HOArun town + individual neighborhood HOAs. Their roads were/are PRISTINE. They plowed as soon as there was even a rumor of snow and even got to the little side roads fairly quickly. All the roads are concrete instead of tar and I cant remember ever running into a pothole. I dont miss the culture/people but I do miss things like that. The roads in Virginia are so bad that President Obama joked with him about it. Cities are crap wherever you are. But get out of the cities and Id have to say Missouri has the most incredible roads. Seriously those letter roads are sheer art. Even the repairs are immaculate you cant feel a thing. And they keep the brush cut back pretty far on both sides of the road to reduce the danger from deer. For a place with such a brutal climate Wisconsins letter roads are really pretty darn good too. As a Sna Diegan I dont know what good roads are. Texas roads are genuinely pretty good. I used to live in Michigan though absolute shit roads Ive lived in three states in the midwest and Michigan is the only state I would say has bad roads. I live in a suburb of Los Angeles with a huge immigrant population. Tons of tax money relatively small population roads here are amazing. 15 minutes away in another suburb the roads are horrible. I live in rural East Central Kansas and honestly our roads are pretty great here. Even the ‘old’ highways are good in my county. They resurface them frequently but in small chunks so that it isn’t a big inconvenience in the day to day. Illinois allegedly has bad roads but any time I go to a border state that has better roads they are always worse than ours. I live in Houston but visit/hang out in the suburbs. The inner city is an absolute disaster. Potholes galore and roads are constantly undergoing maintenance/repairs not to mention traffic is terrible. Spring Pearland The Woodlands if you count it are usually where I’m at on the weekends and wow the roads are wide easy to drive and feel nice. They’re usually very new. Houston Texas has great roads The city of Shawnee mission Kansas has the best roads I’ve ever seen in my life. I don’t live there but the few tiles I’ve had to drive through it immaculate. Cobblestone and brick roads are consistently a little bumpy but they last forever compared to pavement. Post 13 Who are some famous Americans whose names are difficult to pronounce? Author Jezzaq94 Pete Buttigieg X Æ A12 Musk W. E. B Du Bois will catch a lot of smart people. More infamous than famous but Rod Blagojevich. My Dad used to call him Rod Bologna Bitch. He’s not actually an American but a Pole who joined the American Revolution and became an American hero mainly as a military engineer. Andrzej Tadeusz Bonawentura Kościuszko aka Thaddeus Koscuiszko as he is known in the US Zbigniew Brzezinski Also not quite famous famous but fans of comic books will know illustrator Bill Sienkiewicz. Polish names are hard mode. The guy formerly known as Prince Quvenzhané Wallis is probably difficult if you’re just reading her name and have never heard it aloud. Xochitl Gomez might depend on how much Spanish language exposure you have. Tuanigamanuolepola Donny Tagovailoa Halapoulivaati Vaitai Not hard to pronounce but I can never spell Matthew McConaughey without looking it up. Sacagawea Chloë Sevigny Israel Kamakawiwoole Gouverneur” Morris is his name not a fancy way to spell governor and is not pronounced the same For half of the electorate Kamala apparently. That guy. You know that guy! From that thing. The former Duke basketball coach. Elbridge Gerry’s name is not pronounced like his namesake redistricting practice. Macaulay Culkin For a certain portion of the population my mans Noah knigga The NY born actress Saoirse Ronan Saoirse Ronan Powhatan A.A. Ron Balakay Peter Stuyvesant. John Jacob Jingleheimerschmidt Uzo Aduba You basically have to look for African or Polish/Eastern names who were born in the US. Kamala apparently Im not famous but my last name has an oo in it and youd be surprised how many people pronounce it like oh or even ah Zack Galifianakis Brett Favre Dohmnall Gleeson Idina Menzell Extra points for Native and Black American names Xanthe Huynh. If your answer isnt **Zbigniew Brzezinski** youre wrong. Difficult for who? A person American or not will sometimes have difficulty correctly pronouncing a name that they have only seen in print and have never heard but that problem clears up readily with increased exposure and a smidgen of practice. With the names of famous persons that competency is acquired very quickly. Barack Obama Brett Favre. Everybody puts the R before the V when they say it. Arnold Schwarzenegger The guy that plays Dr Strange. Cucumber chamberpot or something. Tadeusz Wladyslaw Konopka......real name of Mary Tyler Moore and Caddyshacks great actor Ted Knight. Archbishop of Chicago Cardinal Blase Cupich. Lots of American hockey players have commonly mispronounced names. First that comes to mind is Tkachuk which is KaChuck” Difficult for who? For English speakers its gonna be foreign names unless its like Sacajawea TaNehisi Coates Major Gratiot Samir Nagheenanajar Zbigniew Brzezinski People mispronounced Dr. Suess’s name so often he changed it to soos” instead of zoyce” Carl Yastrzemski Mike Krzyzewski Post 14 What is the most common tropical vacation place for Americans? Hawaii is probably the most known tropical island globally. Most people picture Hawaii Maldives or the Caribbean when they think of the tropics. The US owns a lot of tropical island territories like Puerto Rico Guam American Samoa and Virgin Islands. They also have very close ties to Central America and Caribbean + Pacific Islands. Looots of tropical places for Americans to choose from their own states to nearby places. Florida Hawaii Mexico or the Caribbean. Cancun people go there a lot. East coast generally goes to Carribean. West coast ussually goes Hawaii. Its a long flight even from the Midwest to Hawaii while Puerto Rico or Bahamas is rather short. Cancun is very popular for Americans especially those who are closer to the east coast. Where I live Pacific NW the most popular beach destinations are Cabo Puerto Vallarta and Hawaii. Go to Cancun and you’d think you’re still in Florida. Florida for U.S. Mexico for outside U.S. For Mexico seems Cancun area PDC etc. more popular for East Coast people Cabo for West Coast. IN GENERAL ... yes I am generalizing. Just like it seems U.S. East Coast goes to the east side of Florida and Midwesterners and Canadians more prevalent on gulf coast of Mexico? Of America?. Again generalizing. It’s Florida by a long shot I live in texas and going on beach vacations to Mexico is very common. It’s a short flight to Cozumel. South Florida is actually considered tropical. It might give Hawaii a run for its money for American tourism. Floridian here we take a weekend cruise to the Bahamas. I always thought it was the Bahamas but that could be because of where I live in Virginia that is where we go. Hawaii is so expensive and a very long flight for most americans. Its popular for sure moreso starting from the west coast but Mexican Caribbean and... Floridian destinations have to be more popular by numbers. Depends on your coast. Hawaii is really far unless you’re west coast so I’d assume Caribbean foe East coasters Probably South Florida or Mexico Florida for now This reel summarizes it perfectly. https//www.instagram.com/reel/C_BOroyNWJR/?igsh=NTc4MTIwNjQ2YQ== TLDR It’s Florida. By a long shot. Flights to Hawaii from most of the continental US are prohibitively expensive. Most of the discount airlines focus on the Carribean. You can fly a family of 4 to the more common Caribbean destinations or to Cancun on Sun Country for the same price as one ticket to Hawaii unless youre flying from the West Coast or you score a deal from one of the major air hubs like ATL or ORD. So Hawaii tends to be a bucket list destination for most Americans. Its a east coast vs. west coast thing. If you live in California your most likely destinations are Hawaii and the Pacific coast of Mexico Puerto Vallarta Cabo San Lucas etc.. If you live in NY you are much closer to the Bahamas PR BVI etc. and the east coast of Mexico Yucatan etc.. If you live in Florida you already live in a subtropical area but at that point you are REALLY close to the Caribbean. You dont really hear about people flying to Guam or American Samoa for vacation. Yes its a thing but its so amazingly far it just isnt super common. I know more people who have been to Fiji or the Maldives than have been to Guam. My mother lived on Guam as a child so I a very aware of that island but most Americans arent. Florida is in the tropics. It’s Florida. Florida is the most common. South Florida. Hawaii is for the rich. Cancún Turks and Caicos and Jamaica South Florida. Though I had the urge to say Myrtle Beach or the Redneck Riviera but I knew people would think I was being serious. Florida is technically subtropical but the most popular US vacation destination. Depends on what part of the country they live in. Most of the people i know in the Northeast go to various places in the Caribbean assuming places like Key West dont count. Personally Ive been to both the US Virgin Islands and BVI. Lots of travel to various Mexican resorts. Going to Hawaii is a hike for east coast folks though I certainly know plenty whove been there but I think both HI and trips to Mexico are more frequent the further west you live. My ex was a big diver he and his buddies went to Guam Samoa Palau the Galapagos a bunch of Caribbean destinations the Great Barrier Reef and probably a bunch of other places but I dumped him for going on too many trips of lifetime without me. Florida Probably Cancun Strangely I dont know very many people other than my husband and myself who have been to Puerto Rico and we live on the east coast. I think its a far superior vacation place than Florida though not as interesting as places along the Yucatan in Mexico. I wouldnt turn down a vacation in PR or Mexico but I would turn down a Florida vacation. depends what coast you are on. the usa is a huge country. im on the west coast and we usually went to hawaii. east coast people probably the caribbean Mexico. Dominican Republic or the Bahamas Florida in particular South Florida and the Florida Keys as well as the Caribbean for the East Coast. I guess Hawaii and Mexico for out West. Dont really hear too many people over here going to Hawaii and Mexico unless youre loaded like that. Florida Mexico Bahamas Dominican Republic Virgin Islands and Hawaii. Depends on which part of the country. Florida Bahamas and Puerto Rico are popular for east coast people. Disney parks. We have them in Anaheim CA and Orlando FL Lake Buena Vista actually. Its common to go on tropical vacations? Florida Florida Dominican Jamaica Mexico. The Yucatan Peninsula Caribbean and Hawaii for me coming from the PNW. I dont go to Florida. Florida or Mexico both are relatively inexpensive compared to Hawaii or lesstraveled destinations. South Florida partly due to all the cruise ships that depart from Miami. Mexico is almost as popular. If you included Disney World it would be no contest. But Orlando is not tropical it is just hot. Technically neither is South FL but close enough Florida Mexico Hawaii or the Caribbean. I know my families home country is picking up steamBelize in the recent years Yucatan Peninsula I’m in the southeastern US. The Caribbean is the most common once for me bc it’s such a short flight. Also it’s convenient to cruise out of the southern ports to the Caribbean. Florida by a mile Bahamas Caribbean Mexico Hawaii Mostly Mexico. The Caribbean souvenir more popular in the eastern US and Hawaii might be more popular in the west East Coast people go to the Caribbean. Probably Cancun is the most common. West Coast people go to Hawaii or Cabo. I think most people first go to the closest tropical destinations. It varies depending on where youre from and likely whats cheapest. As an East Coaster Florida is quite popular and cheap especially because of Disney World. Also the Bahamas Puerto Rico and sometimes Bermuda. Further west I assume Mexico becomes more popular. Yet many are happy to make further trips. Then you have the cruise ship type people who see multiple tropical destinations. The Virgin Islands were my favorites! St. John is extremely stunning and has a national park. Ive been to Hawaii but mostly because my brother lived there. Its a ways from the East Coast. I bet West Coasters go more often. Ive landed in Guam en route home from Asia but didnt visit the island. I think its rarely a vacation destination given the distance. There are US military bases on the island. Id rather go to Thailand been there Vietnam or Tahiti over Guam. Hawaii caribbean. Most everyone in Minnesota goes to Florida. I live in Texas so I can access the gulf from here. Probably the Bahamas/Caribbean. It’s relatively close and relatively affordable. Not all of us have the vacation time or money to go anywhere. Being from the Midwest Mexico and the Caribbean Bahamas Jamaica Dominican Republic are all really popular. Hawaii is too but airfare is much more expensive to get there. Mexico specifically Cancun for people on the East Coast and Cabo for people on the West Coast. After 4 years on Oahu I learned Florida and California are shitholes when it comes to the weather. Cancun was only slightly comparable United States is massive and I think it depends on where you live within the United States. On the West Coast it is kind of a tie between Mexico and Hawaii. Yeah you have to keep in mind that 80% of the country lives east of the Mississippi River so the eastern destinations like South Florida and the Caribbean are easier/more affordable trips. I personally am an Hawaii enjoyer but its a significantly bigger investment + you essentially burn days traveling and have time differences to adjust to. I think it depends on whether youre closer to the West coast or East Coast. People in the west tend to favor the various Mexican beach towns or Hawaii while those who are east go more frequently to Florida Bahamas Puerto Rico etc. Most people I know go to Hawaii Key West Cancun Puerto Vaillarta Jamaica Turks and Caicos the Virgin Islands or the Bahamas. If your question is for facts it is good one for a net search. Here we can give you anecdotal evidence our impressions based on our own experiences and those of people we know. Im in upstate NY do the Thousand Islands count lol? When it comes to fun in the sun its usually the big3 Hawaii Florida and Mexico principally Cancun &amp Baja. Airfare is generally inexpensive with lots of options however accommodations run the garment for budgets. The other locations you listed do get American tourists however that wavers depending on transportation costs. I’m from Michigan originally not far from Detroit lived in Columbus OH for awhile now. Only mention because I’ve always had easy access to decently large airports which helps. I’ve been down to Florida for vacation probably….610 times? Maybe more I’m sure I’m forgetting some trips in my childhood. In mexico my husband and I did an extended stay in Cancun once at a resort. A stay in the Atlantis resort on Nassau once. And I believe I’ve done five or six cruises at this point which all left Florida and did a tour around the Caribbean or Bahamas or Mexico. None of these locations would cause anyone I’ve ever known to be surprised. However I also have family in South America so used to fly down there every December while my grandparents were still alive. That part absolutely is more unusual and will get more questions. I live in Southern California and far more people here have been to Mexico Cancún specifically than Hawaii. I personally prefer Hawaii but flights are very expensive Florida Hawaii Mexico Hawaii is easily the best but if were just going by pure numbers its Huntington Beach. St. Petersburg Panama Beach and Myrtle beach are also very popular and I would guess they have more out of state visitors than Huntington. Outside the US I think Cancun is probably the most popular but I could find anything specific. Florida or Hawaii within the US typically depending on which side of the Rockies you are on. Outside of the US is Caribbean or Mexico. It’s Central America and Puerto Rico for me. I do live in the Southeast so neither are long flights. Hawaii is a once in a lifetime trip for a lot of Americans. It’s a long flight for most of the US so you want to stay at least a week and make it worthwhile and that’s not cheap. The Caribbean and Mexico are a more affordable option and a much shorter flight for most Americans. NYer here. We my family usually go to the Dominican Republic where my dad is from or Brazil where my mom is from. Hawaii or Cabo for people on the west coast. For people on the East Coast or Central US it would probably be Cancún or a Caribbean cruise. In the South it’s definitely Florida or Mexico I put in a reply the statistical answer mexico but my personal favorite has been Costa Rica. If I were to rank the tropical vacation spots Ive been to I would say 1. Costa Rica 2. Puerto Rico 3. U.S virgin Islands/ bahamas tied. Ive also been to Florida but that didnt feel tropical to me. Cruises go to Nassau. Planes go to Cancun. The Bahamas &amp resort towns in Mexico are the big ones. Down the shore East coast. Staying in the US southern Fla various territories like the VI PR etc. Outside the US Jamaica Aruba Bermuda Costa Rico Columbia and a few other countries. If Americans includes Canada Cuba. Never been west of the west coast aside from a cruise from Alaska to Vancouver. I think it depends on where you are. Here in the western states its more popular to go to Hawaii Mexico or Central America. Florida. Fully half the country thinks of it as a sundrenched affordable tropical destination. Mexico for sure! It seems like everyone where I live in the Midwest goes to gulf shores near the Florida panhandle. It is very pretty. I think it depends on where in the US you are. Growing up in So Cal we went to Mexico most often. Hawaii is definitely a dream destination for most. I think on the east coast most people go to the Caribbean. Mexico. I lived in Florida for 30 years. We would take cruises to the Bahamas or Mexico. When you can drive just a couple of hours to the cruise port it’s a relatively inexpensive vacation. Most East Coast Americans will go the Caribbean islands. Usually either Puerto Rico Inexpensive flights from every major east coast airport no passport needed uses American dollars etc or the Dominican Republic easily accessible and the resorts tend to be very reasonably priced. Cancun Hawaii Florida Florida Definitely Florida if you live in the Northeast or the Midwest or the South it’s affordable different cities attract people from different regions. People from Texas either go to Florida or Cancun or cruises. Costa Rica I live in Florida and we never do tropical vacations because we like to mix it up with different weather. That being said I would love to go to Hawaii but it’s such a long flight. I always say that if we have to travel that far I’d rather go somewhere completely opposite of tropical! But to answer your question I think most Americans choose their tropical vacation based upon proximity to their state. We are lucky to have many options nearby! California checking in Hawaii is the most popular tropical destination in my family and social circles which covers people in Bay Area and LA. Hawaii For an easy vacation east coasters will generally go to the beach that is closest to them on the Atlantic. Generally you can just hop in your car and drive a few hours to be there. You dont have to worry about the airport or customs or any of those hassles. Its usually cheaper and takes a lot less time to get there. Though some people prefer the mountains. Which we also have a lot of them to travel to. Florida I grew up in Arkansas and almost everyone who went on a beach vacation went to the panhandle of Florida. It’s still a really long drive. I’m from the Midwest and while Hawaii is a much longer flight it’s so much nicer than the Caribbean. Most frequently I hear Mexican resort cities and Hawaii. Sometimes the Caribbean or somewhere in Asia. But mostly Hawaii and Mexico. I’m West Coast Former Guam resident. Tourists from the mainland arent very common. Its very expensive to fly there from the states. Depending on when you fly it could cost you anywhere from $1600 to $2800. Although tourism on Guam is the main industry its mainly Asian touristsparticularly Japanese folks. If you see stateside tourists in the Tumon strip popular tourist area theyre usually military personnel stationed there. Cancun. Outside of the USA probably Cancun by a wide margin. Inside the USA probably Florida and beach but not tropical Myrtle Beach NC Lots more people in the us have been visiting Costa Rica as well! Florida It depends on the location of the American in question. Someone on the Pacific is more likely to visit Hawaii on a more frequent basis than someone on the Atlantic. In my area were likely to go somewhere in the Caribbean. strictly speaking Hawaii as Florida is subtropical outside a tiny sliver of the everglades that dont get much traffic. resorts in Mexico and Central America are also very popular and by far the top foriegn tropic destinations. Yeah it’s a subtropical desert—southern Baja can have fairly mild if not chilly water temps in the spring also through the air is usually pretty warm. Bahamas I would think. Aside from Florida most people on the east coast of the US will go to places in the Caribbean like the Bahamas Jamaica the US Virgin Islands etc. Or to Mexico Hawaii is expensive and far for a lot of the US. Mexico Aruba The Dominican Jamaica The Bahamas For my northeast people it’s def Florida Depends on where they live. West Coast folks are more likely to go to Hawaii or Western Mexico like Cabo. East Coast folks generally go to Florida Cabo or the Caribbean. I don’t think I’ve ever heard of anyone going to Guam for vacation. Probably because it’s an expensive and very long flight even from the West Coast. Depends on which part of the US they live in. Im in MA and most people I know go to Aruba florida is the most common but that’s like fake tropical In the US? FL. Outside? The Bahamas or Mexico. Hawaii is popular but its a once in a lifetime trip for most. I know people from several states that go to FL every year. If were counting Florida as tropical thats #1. Otherwise Hawaii. USVI and Puerto Rico are good but dont handle as much total volume as Hawaii. Guam is not a popular US holiday destination. Its far away and there arent long haul commercial flights there. There are military transports and an island hopper 737 I believe operated by United. At least it was once Continental. Dominican Republic is quite popular from the Mid Atlantic states. Florida Mexico florida California. Mexico Im from Minnesota the most common spot is Florida. Mexico a close second. Hawaii for me but most people likely choose the Caribbean. I first think of the Florida Keys. My husband and I drove from Key Largo to Mile Marker 0 in key west. It was such a beautiful drive. Each island has its own personality. The food along the way was terrific. Hawaii is common for a lot of people in the Western U.S and some people stopover in GuamMariana Islands on their way to Asia. The tiki hut down by the beach Hawaii is considered part of the West coast vacation scene even though California already offers plenty of beautiful tropical beaches. Florida’s beaches mainly serve people from the southern states and possibly the East Coast Newark to Honolulu is a hell of a flight but worth it. Most people where I live on the East Coast go to Florida or the Caribbean because it’s less expensive and much closer than going to somewhere like Mexico or Hawaii. Probably Bahamas or Mexico for those on the East Coast and Mexico or Hawaii for those on the West Coast. For me...Kauai. Mexico and the Caribbean are the most affordable so that would be my guess as the most popular. Hawaii is very expensive for most Americans. I wouldnt say tropical but the most common beach destination would likely be coastal Carolinas eg Myrtle Beach or the Jersey shore. For general warm place without a beach probably Orlando Florida. 100million Americans visiting Florida last year. Thats 1/3 of the country. Hawaii or Mexico Am Texan. I just go to Florida. The drive from Houston is not that bad if we are just going to Panama City and there are some cool stops along the way. Post 15 What’s it like to have a double last name in America? Asking as an American trying to name a baby whats it like having a double last name in the US? I know Americans with Hispanic double last names for example and I see that most of them tend to only use their first last name socially. I dont mind if my kid chooses one name to use socially but Id prefer it if he has both last names legally. My partner is worried that having a double name in the US is too much of a hassle. Has it been a hassle for you? Does it get messed up on important documents? Would you give your kid a double name in the US based on your experience? I don’t even have a double last name just a long first and last and many forms that have the individual boxes to fill in each letter run out of room. I had a double last name a hyphenated last name for sometime and the last name on my Social Security card was different than my student loans was different than my credit card was different than my bank was different than my credit union was different than my utility bill was different than my login at work was different than my work email…… many of these were not set up to accommodate enough letters for a double last name and at times made it very difficult for me to prove that I was who I was like to validate my information online as I’m trying to give a different last name than somebody is looking at on a computer screen. I personally would not do it again but maybe some folks wouldn’t mind. Its a consistent pain in the ass. Do not subject your child to it. Ask me how I know. Unhyphenated double last name was such a hassle. Credit report with 10+ ‘aliases’ that are my first last and middle names in different orders. Being incorrectly listed on forms and lists for school and work because my second last name was usually used as my only last name. When I got married it was a no brainer for me to switch to one last name. It causes problems. School medical records school records government issued IDs. Nothing is standardized between it all so if you need supporting documentation you could have a lot of hurdles as each one of these could list names differently. I have 2 last names. No hyphen. It is a complete pain in the ass. I added my husbands to mine upon marriage and I would never do it again. This country isnt set up for people with 2 last names. Some use my first last name. Some use the second last name. Some squash them both together looking at you medical insurance. Remembering what someone else decided my name is just sucks. When customer service people ask for my last name and I drop 2 names it inevitably leads to confusion. The US isnt really set up for this. We are aware of Hispanic last names but when it comes to official documents especially some types standardized testing you are going to find specific instructions to use only the last of the double surnames on some forms. Generally speaking most Hispanic people do legally name their child with both last names but accept the first of those names to be used as a middle name and the last name to be used as their official surname. None of the paperwork is set up for dual last names and the most important piece of identity paper work is that it all matches. Between differing character limits and proving identity there WILL be problems. That is why you see people using one legally and two socially. Social is what they choose legal is just the paperwork. My parents hyphenated my last name and it’s been a pain to deal with. My name has always been cut off on school documents because it was too long to fit. It caused issues with registration in college. Then as soon as I hit my late 30s everyone started to assume I was married. Because hyphenated names are uncommon I often find myself explaining my whole life story on why my name is hyphenated because people are curious. My name is unpronounceable to most Americans. If you want your child to be easily accepted and not to be judged by assholes keep it as simple as possible. I dont know if I know anyone with two last names. Every now and then youll see a married woman who hyphenated her last name but in my area of the country that is pretty rare. My daughter has a double last name but on her documents i must have written it wrong so they just made it a compound name so instead of ManleyGreen its Manleygreen.. which sounds like something youd call a big strong tree.. i dig it 😂 If you want a double last name prepare for headaches filling out paperwork. But if you go through with it you should hyphenate it which should mitigate some of the confusion. Troublesome. So is changing your last name. Sure its done all the time but the costs and aggravation arent worth it. It’s a constant mess. Just expect people to constantly be calling you the wrong name. I once even had my student loan disbursement delayed because of confusion between my school and the federal government. Even if you hyphenate people still mess it up. What can I say Americans are dumb. Case in point our President. The US simply isn’t set up for double last names. Your best bet is making one a middle name or hyphenating. I was born with a double last name both are on my birth certificate among other documents and recognized. However since some documents only have the space for one last name state ID I often have to choose one for some forms of ID... and then whenever I use that ID to register for something I can only have one last name. Its not too much of a hassle and personally I like it. But it can be annoying when I have to make sure all the documents line up. My sister and I had a hyphenated last name. She dropped one half and I the other I have our fathers last name and she has our mothers. Just because there was no practical way to fit the longer one on forms and things. It has literally never been an issue for me. I’ve gone through the whole FAFSA ordeal getting passports background checks for firearm purchases etc. and never had issues with two last names making things complicated. In a lot of ways it makes things easier because it’s easier to identify you by your multiple last names rather than a single common last name. My last name is hyphenated it doesnt effect my day to day but there are some more official websites that throw out an error if I dont squish them together I have 4 names basically have 2 middle names and not a double last name. But it’s a pain for sure. My full name doesn’t fit on forms. I just finally got the Real ID with my full name and that was fun. My name is basically just crammed in there. FWIW I’ve always just used 1 middle name. My signature is just the 1 initial and that makes it slightly easier. I cant speak from first hand experience but I have worked with paperwork and database systems including government ones. They are not set up well to take on multiple surnames or even just long ones. From what I have seen you would create headaches for any future paperwork if you go with multiple last names. My middle name is my mothers maiden name but is not officially part of my last name. Its like the best of both worlds official docs dont have to worry about punctuation or anything but its still there. Ill always be a Delano and a Roosevelt. My siblings arent Delanos. I have a hyphenated last name. For me it’s been an annoyance but never an actual problem. The main issue is just having to explain it quite frequently but in that sense it’s really not particularly different than having an unusual first or last name though I am glad that I have an uncomplicated first name to go with my confusing last name. And I do really like having both of my parents’ last names. I’m nearly 40 but only recently did it occur to me that as an adult I could change my name if I wanted to. And it turns out that I don’t want to. I like my name. And yeah I’d give my kid a hyphenated last name. My first middle and last name are all family last names. Just make their middle name another last name. First name Parent 1 last name Parent 2 last name. Im a software engineer with only one last name. From a technical standpoint I would recommend NOT going the double last name or even a hyphenated last name. Many of the systems holding up our countries various programs and agencies are severely outdated and were not built to support anything other than `azAZ`. Even if they support spaces or hyphens many systems will have a maximum length of 1832 characters it varies. Even modern systems tend to be built by people who only see the world through their own eyes and since most people in the US do not have a double last name they never thought to support it. Same reason why so many systems fall apart on anything other than a 7 or 10 digit phone number or a zip code that is anything other than 5 numbers. It will definitely be possible to have the double last name but youll end up in a scenario like /u/foozballhead mentioned where they have a different name in different systems due to the limitations of those systems. I chose to have two last names after I got married 12 years ago. It’s fine. I have had absolutely zero problems. A lot of times especially when interacting with people on the phone I have to spell my last name which is pretty long—that can get pretty tiresome. Otherwise I have never had an issue with form fields being too small. The hardest thing to deal with for names as far as official documents are concerned are special characters like ñ or ç or hyphens. A lot of government entities don’t use them so names can get a little butchered. The Spanish tradition of formally giving two last names is because the first is your fathers and the second is your mothers but more weight is given to the first one so you casually go by just that. This was never really a thing in the US though it has started to become more popular lately. I know several married couples that each added each others last name and its even more common to give children both last names. However its reversed from the Spanish way your final last name is the one at the end. My nephew has both my sisters last name and his fathers. I myself have two last names because one was my original which is now my effectively my middle name and the second is my adoptive fathers last name which is my official surname. Basically its not a big deal but typically youll probably choose one of them as the one to put on official documents. You could in theory do both hyphenating them. tldr nobody really cares or will think it that odd. We all grew up with at least a few kids in our school that had a hyphenated last name. It usually had something to do with the parents being more progressive or the mom wanted to keep her last name for professional or feminist reasons and so they gave the kid both last names. Its not uncommon or considered weird. My 16 year old son has a hyphenated last name. Has never been an issue. Sometimes people forget one half but only in informal low stakes situations that we could care less about. Zero legal issues. Ive seen one instance of three last names doublehyphenated into one. Something like Jake SmithChenSopolsky or something but different. Prep school soccer player in Pennsylvania IIRC. I have a double last name. It causes problems. My dad has 2 first names and they fuck that up all the time. I’m assuming it’s similar I dont have any direct experience myself but it seems like a huge pain in the ass especially if its not hyphenated and doubly so if the parents dont also share the same last names. Most systems arent setup for double last names that arent hyphenated and having a different last name from your kid makes things confusing when you do things that require proving youre their parent like picking them up from school and medical appointments. Unless you have a really strong preference to do something different from the norm Id suggest you and your parent and your kids all share one last name. You can honor your family by adding it as the kids middle name. My mom has a last name like Van Damm and there are all sorts of issues dealing with the government and insurance and things like that depending on how its initially entered like Vandamm VanDamm Van Damm etc. Automated password resets frequently fail if you dont know how it was entered in the system identify verification fails etc. my wife decided she wanted to hyphenate her last name after we married. she hates that she did. 15 letters long. doesnt fit on most credit cards imagine having any place that needs to confirm your name you have to give both of them and hope that they understood it and can spell it without your assistance. for example any kind of billing or tech support One of my relatives is a teacher in a school that has a lot of Hispanic students. Every year we have to put our heads together and try to remember the formula so she can have a clue how to address the mother or the father. If your students name is John Smith you call the mother or father mrs./Mr. Smith If the kid is Maria Gonzalez Rodriguez we have to reorient ourselves every year to find out if the mom is Mrs. Gonzalez and the father is Mr. Rodriguez if they are both Mr./Mrs. Rodriguez or the Dad is Mr. Gonzalez and the mom is Mrs. Rodriguez. I dont know WHY this will not stick in our heads but I help with it just about every year. You would think of all these years one of us would remember it now! My three kids have a doublebarrelled surname and theyve never expressed any misgivings. Theyre now all teenagers and young adults. I really dont think its a big deal. I have a two word last name very common for my ethnic background not doubled from combining two last names it causes minor difficulties as different IDs include spaces and others don’t. I’ve had to show extra ID when flying internationally due to challenges and discrepancies with how my name shows up in different systems. Nothing has been so bad to make it a deal breaker but if I was choosing for a kid I’d make one a middle and one a last rather than two last names. When I was a kid I assumed people with hyphenate last names were fancy if not rich. As an adult... its your name I call you by your name and dont read too much into it. I have a slightly different spelling for my first name and have enough problems with that I can’t imagine what an unmitigated disaster two last names in any format would create! It’s a non issue. I only use my 2nd one verbally but on nothing official just to be consistent My stepson’s last name got screwed somehow with Social Security so when I came along and his mom and I got married our first joint tax return got bounced a couple of times because the kid’s name didn’t match his SSN. Not a major problem but a PITA for which you’ll want to keep an eye out. I’m not sure it was ever corrected either. My lasts are hyphenated doesn’t change much. I go with one or both depending on the circumstances I usually go with one when signing something just cause I’m lazy. In the United States and United Kingdom I was born with dual citizenship it’s still most common for women to change their name when they marry. However my mum had already been pretty well established in her academic career when she got married in the late 1970’s completing her doctorate shortly after I started elementary school and chose to hyphenate. Becoming GivenName MarriedNameMaidenName” on all official paperwork like passports and such but in her professional life she just went by GivenName MaidenName.” My birth certificate lists me as GivenName MumsLastNameDadsLastName” but in daily life I always just went with GivenName DadsLastName.” So although I *officially* have a double last name outside of school enrollment paperwork when I was a child and my annual tax returns it pretty much never came up. I just plain didn’t use it in daily life. Every couple of years I’d have to fight with a paperwork clerk in DHS about my uniforms not having the hyphenated names on it but they never really seemed to care. When I married my first husband I was already fairly well established in my military career having just been promoted to E6. So I didn’t change my name at all… Which was really convenient after the divorce as I didn’t have to do any extra paperwork. Our two children both have just their father’s surname as it was very important to him and his family that they do… and I figured a threefold hyphenated name would just be too much. My current spouse is IndonesianAmerican and it’s not customary for either spouse to change their name upon marriage. Indeed Indonesians often do not have a family last name or surname at all. My spouse happens to come from such a family. Officially in everything from Indonesia they just have one name. Although many will adopt one for professional purposes or to assimilate if they interact with Westerners frequently. So I still go by my name and they still go by their name and an assumed surname they picked out for themselves when they immigrated to the States. What gets awkward for them is that they’re just plain not used to using a surname in daily life and sometimes *forget* that it’s their name! Compared to the creative first names double last names arent an issue. Very common I work with official names all day long. Hyphenated last names have been a thing for decades. Its not super common but its not unusual I wish I had never done it. I’m divorced and Irish with an unusual Italian second name. It starts with an I and so many people can’t pronounce it correctly and sometimes think it should be a T not I. I primarily use one but use both for legal paperwork I have two last names. I use it for all official purposes at work and with friends I only use one. The biggest problem? LinkedIn verification. The name on my drivers license is not matching the last name most people know me for. My children have two middle names. One of which is my wifes maiden name. That has not caused them any problems. I would recommend it rather than two last names. So Tom Frank Hernandez Smith.Not actual name. First name Tom. Frank and Hernandez are middle names Smith last name. Here I sit with a 4 character last name. Every standardized test with those SCANTRON sheets to fill out those hyphenated last name kids’ hands were already fatigued by the time the actual test started. The only time i can think of where a double last name has had any kind of impact at all is if you join a branch of the military as they dont use a hyphen. So if your name is Mary Ann SmithJones your uniforms will say SMITHJONES. One of my kids middleaged now had a long last name like TOLKIENSMITH in the Navy in the 90s. I dont have one but my brother does and the only effect Im aware of is that it made it more complicated for him to get dual citizenship to Germany. Computer systems are just not set up for double last names. It is HARD to find Hispanic clients in jail prison or ICE custody due to this. The jail will have one name and the court will have a different one. When you are a lawyer trying to find your client in custody this becomes a big problem. Is your client’s name not coming up because they are NOT in jail? Or because you need to try 6 more variations on their last name…? No one cares Allows for creative heckling at sporting events. The goalie for an opposing hockey team had a hyphenated last name and fans yelled insults twice like insulthypheninsult. They would actually say the word hyphen. My kids have hyphenated surnames and we can’t always fill them in correctly on paperwork but it did not cause much of an issue with school enrollment medical records obtaining passports or other important stuff like that. They also share a first initial which *has* caused confusion at the doctor’s office. Most databases dont allow for hyphens so I must suffer. Otherwise its just a lot of correcting misspellings. I apparently have a dozen aliases that are just misspellings of my last name. Never had problems with official documents. The only issues I’ve had are people assuming it’s hyphenated when it’s not and thinking one name is my middle name and leaving it off Growing up I had several friends that had double and they had it few of them said they was going to cut one out as soon as they could My husband is hyphenated. Getting a passport? Need two forms of matching ID. Doesn’t have those. Real Id? Real pain in the ass. Figuring out what the bartender put the tab under? Thoughts and prayers. Even CLEAR was a an ordeal. Can’t easily freeze his credit the bureaus don’t recognize the hyphen and his name doesn’t match without the hyphen. We have a running joke. See why I didn’t take his name”? No one has ever been pro his name. Oh and visas for travel? Good luck without getting on the phone. What I’m saying is. He hates it and has cussed his parents more for that decision than any other. He considered taking my last name. To make it easier. Do not recommend. My first name has a space and I hate it. It make paperwork so much harder. Trust me just name your kid Bob smith or something simple and they will thank you forever especially when they do paperwork. Just having a diminutive on my last name causes enough problems. I definitely wouldn’t want to deal with an actual double last name hyphenated or not. It was messed up when I was young. People who don’t even know what a diminutive is trying to tell me I am spelling my own name wrong. It really made genealogy research a pain in the ass. There was just no consistency in how the de” was applied. Sometimes it’s there sometimes not. Sometimes it had a space before the actual name sometimes not. It’s almost funny how much that one little space can make some old records almost impossible to find… looking at you US Army records department. The double name fad came and went quickly . Why? Cause people realized that if their grandkids would have like 4 names if you keep it going . Im going against the here apparently. Ive made it 40 plus years with a hyphenated last name and Ive never had any hassle with paperwork. I worked in a pharmacy for 15 years. The number of women who forgot they had a hyphenated last name is incredible. They are hard to find in the system because I cant just type out just the first last name to find the prescription. And in my experience the first last name is usually the most unique so youve got to spell it out each time. Sometimes insurance wouldnt go through because some insurances are name dependent. And no one calls you by both last names. Not sure about where you are but in the south youre not called Ms. SmithJones youll be Ms. Jones so its almost like whats the point of a hyphenated last name when itll barely be used to address you. I’m going to disagree with many comments here. I have a double last name and I’m glad my parents did that. Do some places mess it up? Yes. Sometimes spaces aren’t allowed so it all gets mushed together. I got used to this very quickly. It doesn’t materially impact my life. All official documents have my correct name and have always had my correct name with no issues at all. In a sense it has made life easier because whenever I have a phone call for first name + Father’s last name I know it’s a telemarketer or scam. I have a hyphenated last name. its annoying but Im used to the annoyances. all other things being equal i wish my parents hadnt done this to me. Ive considered dropping one of the names but its used hard to pick a parent. Its a hassle. My school refused to put one of them on my diploma and made me choose one. Ive been made to redo paperwork because it didnt fit in the last names allotted space and wasnt hyphenated. Its been a huge pain in the ass and It bums me out at time lol. People will often just simply ignore the first one. I dont know what possessed my family to do this. Edit online forms that dont allow spacing? Fuck me! Im in it apparently lmao I got feels on this apparently Ive never been asked lmfao I dont have a double last name but part of my work involves records management. I have enough exposure to know when a last name is most likely a double last name but there are some cases where its not obvious. Im actually less certain when its a double with UK origins as opposed to doubles with origins in the Iberian Peninsula or Central and South America. For people who dont encounter double last names often if they ever encounter them at all they might not even be aware that unhyphenated double last names are a thing. I could see this being a pain sometimes for a person who has a double last name. It’s a little annoying as the parent every place that uses legal names for the system has a different method for dealing with it. If you are talking to a receptionist or doing a lookup yourself it’s a crap shoot as to whether they entered in only one last name both with a space both with no space both with a hyphen etc. Some systems may also have arbitrary length character limits so if you have particularly long last names that may also come up. I don’t regret doing it but definitely a bit of a headache. It can be annoying when it comes to forms and such but generally isnt a big deal. Theyre common enough. Another option is to give one of the last names as a middle name. It’s just not common in the USA to use double last names. I had a bad run early on in my career with hyphenated last names being bad workers. I am now prejudiced against people with hyphenated last names. I didnt choose to do a double last name because of the issues some of my friends had growing up with theirs being made fun of for it and it wouldnt help that our name would have sounded about like a verbal German sneeze. Also the surname length would have been an issue because there isnt enough spaces available on some legal/government forms. Hyphenated last names carry some baggage in the US. Its a tipoff to the politics of the name holder. Everyone is allowed to have their political opinions but if you dont want them to be advertised to everyone who encounters your name you probably dont want a hyphenated last name. It sounds so awkward saying Miss Lastnamelast name. Just stunted and very displeasing to say. Most work emails are based on your legal name. You cannot choose to only use one last name if you legally have two. Ive witnessed confusion regarding this because someone will try to send an email to JohnSmith@company.com and it bounces back because his email is actually JohnSmithReilly@company.com I had one and hated it. It was my moms and dads names hyphenated together and since both my parents had different ethnic backgrounds the two names were strange together. I legally changed it after college. I just went with my mothers name because it sounded more normal. Aside from all the logistical issues which others have already highlighted double last names are stupid because they only work for one generation. Say you have a son and give him a double last name because you want both of your names represented. When your son gets married what if his wife also wants her name represented? Theyre not going to give their kids 3 last names. People cant just keep adding on names indefinitely. What if you and your spouse both had double last names representing both of your parents? How would you choose which ones to give your children? Its extremely impractical for the sake of sentiment. A name doesnt make a family. I had a double last name and in the end I dropped the fathers last name because it was my moms side of the family that raised me plus my last name is exceedingly rare while my fathers last name wasnt. Only 4600 or so people possess my last name in the United states. The only downside is the length of writing it out on forms. And for me the catalyst for changing it was getting married I didnt want to pass on a hyphenated name for either my spouse or potential children. Yes its very common in Hispanic culture. I knew a handful of people with double last names growing up and none of them were Hispanic. Two had parents from the virgin islands one was of white European ancestry and another was mixed. I know they had trouble with filling in some of those forms with the printed boxes because there werent enough to put a letter in each box. Same with some standardized testing scantrons. I had a friend in college who got married after college and changed his name along with his wifes to a double last name and then all of their kids had the double last name as well. They werent Hispanic either. Make sure you teach them what their actual name is. I work in finance. The number of credit apps we would get where someone would put their last name as GuevaroRuiz when it is actually Guevaro Ruiz no hyphen is shocking. Or Ruiz when its actually Guevaro Ruiz. Or their middle name is actually Guevaro but they put their last name as Guevaro Ruiz. Those are the most common mistakes I see. It can mean having to repull credit getting letters of explanation for name discrepancy since undoubtedly the name variation has leaked into things like bank accounts etc and signing an alias affidavit. Its not that big a deal on my end but customers get really pissed about it sometimes and its like youre the one who put the wrong name on your application... Mexican Americans generally opt for their fathers surname to be their last name and for them to have no legal middle name. If you have a double surname for not linguistic reasons child out of wedlock for example most people legally have two but generally prefer using only one I gave my first daughter a hyphenated name because her dad and I weren’t married when she was born. She had the option to change it later and never wanted to. Still uses both or one or the other depending on preferences. It’s not a big deal I didn’t change my name when I got married. Our children use my husband’s last name but we gave them my last name as a second middle name. It allows them to use it as their legal name if they want to and they can decide to hyphenate it later. Fwiw I personally think hyphenated names are stupid. We usually say hyphenated and though they can be a slight pain most people I know with them dont find it a big deal unless they are filling out a form and both names are long. Its very normal here in California. I have a hyphenated last name. I don’t mind it. Its ok. Some places its a bit annoying like Ill have to tell the receptionist Try it with a space. Try it with a dash. Try it as one word. But I dont think its any more annoying than any other people who have a hard to spell last name. Oh no it takes 2 extra minutes to check into a hotel or see the dentist. The horror. Lol. Just dont. Theres no reason to make your kids life harder than necessary. One in every four kids with the initials A.D.D. actually has it and four out of four kids with the initials A.D.H.D. has an annoying selfrighteous mother who wouldnt just shut the fuck up and take her husbands last name. Speaking as a husband and wife team with hyphenated names it sucks ass. And it sucks evenworse ass for the children. This country because its so profoundly backwards in this regard has made having a hyphenated name considerably worse. My wife and I are from opposite sides of the planet. And she didnt want my name because we couldnt look any more different. The reward has been way too much government red tape and stupidity. Frankly I should have just taken her name. It would have made things so much easier. Use all the middle names you want. One last name. Your children will will thank you for it. PS She deals with the bigots who ask Was your husband in the military? with a response of No but my girlfriend is. It can be very annoying I usually never use my second last name but it’s still part of my legal name. So my drivers license has it but my truck registration does not for example. Today I went to buy a new pistol and it requires a second proof of residency aside from your drivers license I tried to use my vehicle registration but since it was a big box store they didn’t let me use it a smaller store usually it’s okay with it. Thankfully for some reason they accept fishing licenses so I went and bought one from the counter I had to spend an extra $60 for a finishing license I won’t use and likely lose next week so I might need to do that trouble again when I buy another firearm hahahaha. Post 16 How do Americans today view William Franklin the son of Benjamin Franklin who supported the British during the American Revolution? How do Americans today view William Franklin the son of Benjamin Franklin who supported the British during the American Revolution? I think the fact that I didnt know Ben Franklin had a son says everything we need to say about how we view that. I didn’t know he had kids This was probably more scandalous 250 years ago. We dont. If you asked 100 random Americans you could probably count the ones that would recognize the name on one hand. Hes not demonized or hated for his loyalties during the Revolution. There were a number of loyalists and they werent particularly hated afterwards certainly not in any way that lasted down through the generations. The ones who actively betrayed the Revolution by turning sides during the war they are the ones who the hostility really goes to. The most hated figure of the American Revolution is Benedict Arnold for his betrayal in switching sides partway through the war. The name Benedict Arnold in American English is synonymous with traitor. We really dont think about him at all. Lots of people were Loyalists. I don’t think I’ve ever heard of him. I’d wager over 99% of Americans haven’t. That should tell you enough. Bens gout is more famous than his offspring. He had kids? We don’t think about him. At all. Im pro Ben and dont think about Will. That almost no one could tell you who William Franklin is is a fair summary. He was a lousy son of a bitch and in my town we have an annual parade where we march and burn him in effigy. The whole town comes together to burn that bastard. We will never forget his treachery! Got a 5 in AP US History never heard of him. So I’m going to say the *vast* majority of Americans are with me on this one. His dad was right and he was wrong. It’s fascinating family drama but I harbor no ill will towards the man. He had his position and fought for it. It wasn’t like he was evil. Just wrong. 99.99998% of people would have no idea who youre talking about. We don’t view him at all. All I remember is that he was a staunch loyalist and the royal governor of New Jersey. Lots of people were loyal to the British he was untitled to his opinion. Who? We don’t have any opinions about him he doesn’t get brought up in history classes about the American Revolution. He’s largely forgotten tbh Ive never thought of him once in my life. I had no idea Ben Franklin had a son or what his political leanings were so I have no opinion of him. He’s basically irrelevant. Not even a footnote in history. As someone who might come up in a high dollar Jeopardy question. Its just pretty embarrassing for Franklin. He did not hesitate to cut his son off because he thought he was a traitor. Well its kind of a sad story because he accompanied his dad to the UK when he was there in the 1760s and his dad did a lot to get him set up in life and get appointments and what not and he did become the royal governor of New Jersey as a result of all of that. And Ben did take Williams son Temple under his wing and their relationship meant that Temple chose Ben over his father William. And Ben wasnt forgiving even after the war was over. Kind of a sad story about the personal cost of the war really. But hes not anyone I think about regularly. Never heard of him. You say he supported the British so maybe they cover him in history but he’s unknown to us. William was put in a tough position. Many colonists at the time still felt a loyalty to the Crown. It is hard to blame someone who doesn’t want to throw away 900 years of tradition of rule even with Parliament trying to demonstrate its authority. Add the fact that William had a pretty comfortable position in the royal colonial government and it’s hard not to appreciate his position. No hard feelings there. Its kind of funny. Many of my ancestors have been in America since the early 1600s Winthrop fleet so I had quite a few ancestors here during the Revolutionary War. Roughly a third of them were Loyalists. I was a bit bothered by this when I first found out but it turns out that it was *very common*. Most modern historians accept that the population split was roughly 1/3 Loyalist 1/3 Patriot and 1/3 meh whatever just leave me out of it. The difference between the sides was primarily that the Patriots were overwhelmingly willing to take up arms to fight for their beliefs while only about 15% of Loyalists were actually willing to take up arms for the Crown and only about 20% were outspoken about it. After the Revolutionary War the outspoken Loyalists were broadly persecuted many fled to Canada and the Bahamas so the rest of them shut up and kept their opinions to themselves. By the time laws persecuting Loyalists were repealed in the late 1780s it just wasnt a topic that polite people discussed. By the time early historians began recording the stories of the Revolutionary War very few Loyalists were willing to have those positions recorded for posterity. So the answer to your question is that we really dont think about them at all. Our history books occasionally mention that they existed but other than Benedict Arnold they arent something thats broadly discussed or studied as part of our history. Benjamin Franklin Yay! William Franklin *Who??* Thats my real answer to how Americans view William Franklin. We pretty much dont know who he is. Thats how it works though. To the victor go the spoils. Victors promote the correct record of events while burying mentions of the people who supported the losers so that those people will be FORGOTTEN. In all likelihood only serious scholars of that era will know who William Franklin was or what he did or whose side he was on beyond his Wikipedia entry. Maybe someone has tried to dredge up his story for some book or documentary somewhere. Not sure. Why would they? What is it about his story that would be relevant to today? Most Americans probably haven’t heard of him. I doubt Americans that have heard of him have that strong of an opinion oh him but I’d imagine it leans more negative than positive. From my understanding William did not make a secret of the fact that he was a loyalist so while I imagine that people at the time were angry that he sided with the British he’s not viewed in the same way as someone like Benedict Arnold who switched sides halfway into the war and actively tried to sell out his former army. Maybe people who are Benjamin Franklin fans strongly dislike him but I think that people who know enough about the conflict to have heard of William Franklin probably also know that the war was complex and not simply good vs. bad. The motives behind which side someone joined varied and without the benefit of knowing the outcome it is not hard to understand why some individuals would reject the authority of an untested rebel government in favor of the established British one even if they weren’t happy with parliament. I think the real legacy of William Franklin is that he demonstrates how the fight for independence tore apart families and communities the same way that the American Civil War did nearly a century later. Tldr Most Americans probably haven’t heard of him. The Americans that have probably have a negative or neutral view of him especially if they like Benjamin Franklin. Americans who have a strong interest in the American Revolution may be more sympathetic to him in acknowledgment of the complexity and morally gray aspects of the conflict but I doubt many actually are fond of him. I totally get why. A good number of colonials didnt really support the revolution either. Throw in all the bullshit the new govt inflicted after the war and its no wonder were taught so much propaganda in schools i don’t really care to be honest First time Ive heard of him lol Who? It was what it was back then. There were patriots and loyalists and it depended on what effected a person. The enlightened thinkers and business men were typically patriots. For someone who was raised around a lot of American History I just dont know much about William Franklin to answer this. We aren’t taught this. First I’ve heard of it. Looking at the responses in this thread and not remembering him from my history class mostly forgotten seems to be the answer. I had no idea he had a son this isn’t common knowledge. Never heard of him but its hard to pick the right side in a revolution. Most people dont know about William Franklin. We dont exactly tout those who were against the cause no matter their parentage unless they are quite noteworthy in their own regard. As to that last point him being the last loyalist governor of New Jersey doesnt rise to that level IMO. Most havent heard of him. Never heard of him😭 Never heard of him Never thought of him at all until this thread. Who? William who? He had a son?? Most people dont know that he existed. He is a forgotten figure. Who? Literally never heard of this and I consider myself as reasonably well versed on American History having read a handful of books on the subject. I doubt anyone outside this thread has heard of him. Maybe 1 in 1000+. Literally never learned about him so I think that says a lot Most of us dont know he even had a son. I just read Franklins autobiography and he mentions his son very briefly and never goes into detail. I had to go looking for info and found they were estranged and why. Ben really tried to sweep him under the rug and it largely worked. Who? I’ve never heard of the guy before today. First time hearing about his. I did visit museum of Ben in Philadelphia and visited his grave too. Most Americans dont know he had a kid or at least a kid in the states who knows how many illegitimate kids he has in Britain France and Spain As a British loyalist. Who? Seriously…who? I guess that tells you how he’s viewed around here. lol I’ve never heard of him before in my life and I probably had 6 different semesters on that era of history between kindergarten and eighth grade. William who? This is the first time Ive ever heard of that traitor and Im not interested in hearing more about him. He was on the wrong side of that fight. Thats all I need to know. I’d say 99% of American never heard of him. I’ve heard the story and I don’t really care. Gen Benedict Arnold is who we remember. Hes completely unknown outside of history buffs We don’t Most of us dont. Hes been effectively written out of history. A lot of folks at that time were against the war. Change is scary. Never heard of him. Nobody thinks about him. Who? Never heard of him or anything about him. I’ve never read about him but judging by the rapid deterioration of the experiment that is our representative democracy he was probably right. He was a suck up to the aristocracy and disloyal to his father. He was a royalist loser. Never heard of him... Never heard of him TIL... there was a William Franklin the son of Benjamin Franklin who supported the British during the American Revolution. Never heard of him. We don’t really think of him at all but in American English Benedict Arnold is still seen as pretty close to traitor Who? Lol never heard of him so I guess that says it all. Never heard of him. Nobody was taught about him not thought of negatively or at all. Who? Even as a kid I viewed it as just a tough choice he was forced to make. A person living his own time. It also fits other historical narratives of ours about being forced to take sides. I never considered that him staying loyal to king and country was bad. Mostly I thought about his father son relationship and that he had to know it wouldn’t survive the war as it was before. Never heard of him. Who? Most wouldn’t know him. Those that do most of them would think he supported the losing side in a war against us so he faded into obscurity like the losers of war usually do.” I know he was the Royal Governor of New Jersey thanks to the musical *1776* and I’m generally a US history nerd but I couldn’t tell you anything else about him. The American Revolution was as much a civil war as a war for independence from Great Britain so this fact should not be at all surprising. The war put neighbor vs neighbor and divided families as much as the actual American Civil War. That said other than history buffs such as myself I would guess at least 95% of Americans never heard of William Franklin. The Loyalists are mentioned in our schools but only briefly and their part is often underrepresented in favor of the Patriots history is written by the victors after all. In reality Loyalist represented \~20% of the 13 colonies population and Patriots around 40% while the remaining 40% were basically neutral towards the whole affair. These are rough percentages and these numbers ebbed and flowed with the tide of battle and which side seemed to hold the advantage. It was often the case where captured soldiers from one side would switch allegiances after a battle and the general population often had no qualms about shifting support as well depending on which side offered them the best deal. Oooh right. I forgot he had a traitor for a son. I guess that answers that. It’s nothing unusual to find parents and adult children on different sides of a political issue. Depending on which side you’re on you may well consider the other side treasonous. Bruh I didnt even know who that was until just now Who? Never heard of him. If they know who he isand thats a big if they know he fought on the Loyalist side of the conflict and he was estranged with his father and son because of it. But thats pretty much it. I’ve never heard of him either and I enjoy learning about history. Time to go down a rabbit hole! They don’t. Most Americans don’t know Benjamin Franklin wasn’t a president. The VAST majority of Americans have no idea this guy existed. I consider myself a history buff and I didn’t even know he existed. We had Stalins daughter and the children of Hitlers nephew. Were winning the hearts and minds of our enemies children battle. We got Harry too. He was a real Benedict Arnold. Never heard of him I’ve never heard of him so that says everything. I would be ashamed if I found out my ancestors supported the British. However fortunately many of my ancestors fought for our freedom. We look at William Franklin in the same way a wolf looks at a teacup yorkie dumbfounded that such a noble predecessor produced such a weak willed offspring. We blame his mother. Never heard of him I knew Ben had a son only because I did a report on him 25 years ago. But beyond knowing of Williams existence I know nothing of him We don’t. Never heard of him The response of most Americans who are not either students of history or fans of the show 1776 would be Who? Americans dont think about or care about William Franklin and most are not even aware of his existence. The only one we seem to care about was Benedict Arnold. These days the vast majority of Americans dont hold any animosity towards the British. Never heard of him Never heard of her... They don’t know who he is for the most part and he isn’t often mentioned in stories of Ben Franklin. He’s seen as a loyalist not really as a traitor like Benedict Arnold Willingboro NJ has a plaque on William Franklins old land. Growing up there I looked upon William as a traitor and greatly admired Benjamin. across the street from 100 S John F Kennedy Way Willingboro NJ 08046 I’ve never heard of him Who? We dont think about him at all. I dont think we even think about him. Im familiar with him but it was 250 years ago and so its not really relevant today. Ben had a kid? Many Americans think Ben Franklin was a President. You think we even know what side his kid was on? Thank you for giving credit where none is due. I used to be a tour guide at the site Ben Franklin is buried back in high school. This wasn’t even on the research packet I used to give tours. I have greater concern for LTC Robert Rogers and thats more pity than animus. Never heard of him Ben was rather late joining the revolution. Before 1776 he was an agent of the colony of Pennsylvania and had lived in London for many years. Ben also pulled some strings to make his son Governor of the Colony. The moment Ben turned radical was probably the moment he was dressed down in parliament over a scandal where he published letters Massachusetts Governor Hutchinson and British officials. When he left he joined the rebellion and was sent to the 2nd Congenital Congress as a representative from Pennsylvania. He was a dumb plot point of the movie here No one talks about him. In the play and movie 1776 Ben Franklin refers to him as the little bastard that is how he referred to him in real life. That about sums it up when he is thought about at all. Many people did not know Franklin had a son. Franklin declared he had no son. I never think about him Never heard of him There were a sizeable number of loyalists in colonies. Some of them left and went to Canada and the UK. My paternal side of the family split and some went to Canada whereas others fought in the continental army. We stumbled across legal records where one of them claimed a pension as a sergeant during the war. I dont think split families were that unusual. they don’t teach anything about him lol Like we do with others we dont think about him. To be frank. I’ve never heard of William Franklin. We don’t. We dont think of him at all. I only became aware of him when I watched a bio movie about Franklin a couple of years ago. Michael Douglas played Franklin it was pretty good. Might have been an HBO miniseries. Did not know about that. 🤷‍♀️ Its not in the mainstream education system. I didnt learn about him until advanced American history in college. it was an elective course. I bet 90% of American never heard of him and those that have most have no idea he was a loyalist. I dont have an opinion on him. we won. I knew about him from reading that book about him a few years ago. Most people do not know the details about our nations history outside of historians and buffs like me. Don’t know about him don’t care about him. Nothing at all cuz we don’t know who he is on average Like family members being split today over Trump/Maga ending the U.S. democracy and those of us who want to preserve our country n Never heard of him Who? I have pretty strong opinions about James Franklin. Impressive man. Most have never heard of him. I am aware he existed but don’t really think of him except for feeling bad for Ben that his son was on the other side of a war from him. Few people are aware of this fact. No one cares if they know. We dont. I only remember a son who died young from smallpox because the common law wife was afraid to inoculate him. Then Franklin moved to England for 15 years. The vast majority of Americans are completely oblivious to the existence of the late William Franklin. We don’t learn about it honestly. didn’t know of his existence prior to reading this title Family members on opposing sides is not unusual in our country’s history. But I couldn’t give you the name of any loyalist. I knew about this but to be honest the Revolutionary War was so long ago that its hard to muster up strong feelings about it. it Of course there were people who supported the monarchy there are always loyalists in times of tyranny. Our focus on the American Revolution is in the details of what we built after. Just like you arent going to find Americans who are antiBritish because of something that happened centuries ago you probably wont run into anyone who is outraged by Ben Franklins son. A traitor obviously We dont generally. No one thinks about him and shouldn’t. He’s not an important figure Most didnt even know they had kids let alone who they supported I have an aboveaverage interest in history and literally the only context in which I knew anything about William Franklin was that he was illegitimate with an unknown mother and that was a source of some salacious speculation during Benjamin Franklins lifetime. No idea that he was a loyalist till just now. So I would say most simply do not view William Franklin at all. We extensively read and discussed him in history and social studies in highschool. It basically boils down to political differences. William was what we would call a conservative and Benjamin a liberal. And basically like todays political climate Ben cut off contact with his kids because of his beliefs Who? Actually watch 1776. I believe Ben refers to him as a bastard. Never heard of him but it seems like a good example of how divisive the American Revolution was. I dont hold anything against people who supported the British except Benedict Arnold. Who? While we dont think about him at all that probably has more to do with Benedict Arnold basically being the be all end all of Revolutionary villains due to his blatant treason as opposed to loyalists who never turned coat. I have read so many Ben Franklin Books and I had no idealol. Ben Franklin was a ladies man and everyone knew it. Including his wife. He stayed friends with his former mistresses and many letters survived. There was also a book about his favorite sister and his letters to her. Post 17 Why do you have so little twilight on the Pacific coast? In the UK at this time of year we get about an hour of twilight after sunset. ....Twilight was filmed in the Pacific Northwest I would say we have the most Twilight. ...are you asking us why the sun looks different? My best guess is like...latitude and shit. Because even the southernmost point in the UK is still further north than the entirety of the Pacific coast of the US. Because you are waaaaay further north than we are. The closer you get to the equator the shorter dawn and dusk is. Yall are further north. You overlap with alaska not the contiguous west coast states. [deleted] It has more to do with latitude. Higher the latitude longer days and more twilight. The UK’s southernmost point is further north than the northernmost point in the continental US. Look at the US. Chicago is in the northern part of the US and has tundra winters. It is straight west from Rome. Miami is as far north as Cairo. The straight line that forms the USCanada border is at 48 degrees north. London is at 51 degrees north. The UK is as far north as the Hudson Baythe polar bears + bare rocks part of Canada. You better hope the Gulf Stream never stops. The time I visited Scotland it was in the month of June. I looked outside late at night and I was surprised the sky was still dark blue rather than black night. Thats when I looked up how far north Scotland is and realized all this. Are you talking about the time between the sun sets and the time its fully dark? Id say thats about an hour. Maybe a little less Ive never really thought about it. I live on the Pacific coast. Its pretty cloudy today or Id offer to measure it for you. In this time of year at higher latitudes like the UK the sun hits the horizon at a flatter angle then farther south like the US Pacific coast of the 48 contiguous states. The sun always moves at the same rate but the flatter angle means the sun is closer to the horizon for a longer time period leading to longer twilight. It has nothing to do with the coast it has to do with the latitude and the seasonal tilt of the earth. This is also why you can have continuous periods of sunlight or darkness depending on the season if youre above the Arctic Circle or below the Antarctic Circle. Before I went to Guam at 13.5°N the first time Id never been below 26.5°N. It was quite noticeable how much more rapidly the sun set and it got dark. I suggest you go to https//www.wunderground.com and look at the astronomy tables for various locales based on different latitudes. For example for San Diego today sunset is at 757 PM and astronomical twilight is at 938 PM for Liverpool its 939 PM and 1158 PM respectively. The former is about 1.75 hours and the latter is about 2.33 hours. Its about how far north you are. Britain is as far north as the south of Alaska. Alaska has as much or more twilight as Britain. What part of the coast are you on? Up here by Seattle we get at least an hour of twilight in the summer. Latitude The length of twilight is dependent on local terrain – if you’re in a valley it will be shorter. You’re the same latitude as Alaska that’s why The UK is much farther north than All of the US save for Alaska. All this time Ive been hearing about how its the Americans that suck at geography Mountains Post 18 Why are American prisoners put on a death row? Author PepperSaltClovePost Text If someones a criminal and given the death penalty why are they put on a death row and have to wait to be executed? Why isnt it done straight away? This subreddit is for civil discussion political threads are not exempt from this. As a reminder * Do not report comments because they disagree with your point of view. * Do not insult other users. Personal attacks are not permitted. * Do not use hate speech. You will be banned permanently. * Comments made with the intent to push an agenda push misinformation soapbox sealion or argue in bad faith are not acceptable. If you can’t discuss a topic in good faith and in a respectful manner do not comment. **Political disagreement does not constitute pushing an agenda.** If you see any comments that violate the rules **please report it and move on!** *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* They have to be given an opportunity to appeal their conviction to a higher court. Because they have a legal right to appeal the conviction. Appeals. Think to yourself it is possible for people to be wrongly convicted of capital offenses it has happened before. Summary execution deprives a potentially innocent person of the right to appeal. I don’t think we should have capital punishment at all but if we are gonna do it the appeals process has to be strictly observed. Can’t take back death. Because they have rights. One of those rights is to contest their sentence and case. That takes time to do. In the meantime they are held in prison while they appeal their case. And since there have been times where someone was put on death row and later found out that they didnt commit any crime its important to give everyone the chance to appeal in case that happens again. 1. Right of appeal still exists. 2. Even after all appeals are exhausted which often takes decades there are other legal and quasilegal procedures that can delay an execution. Seeking clemency is the frequent one though it isnt uncommon to file a suit claiming that \[particular detail of the execution process\] is an Eighth Amendment violation. 3. Once all thats resolved in many states and at times within the Federal system theres a moratorium in place on executions. This doesnt mean anyone has their sentence commuted it just isnt carried out until the moratorium is lifted. 4. Procuring drugs and equipment and logistically organizing an execution is fairly time consuming. The free market is deciding that participating in executions is not worth it. Appeals process. Right to appeal. That’s why putting people on death row is actually more expensive than simply giving them life all those appeals cost money. Because everyone has the right to appeal a conviction in the court of law. You don’t have to appeal but in the case of the death penalty 99.9% of people do since ya know that’s a pretty permanent punishment. The appeal process can take a long *long* time. Obviously with something like a state sanctioned execution you need extraordinarily strong evidence that proves guilt which isn’t easy to come by. Because of that are people who were sentenced to death in the 90s still in prison today. That said people on death row are basically just regular prisoners while the appeal process is carried out. Why isnt it done straight away? They have multiple opportunities to appeal the conviction and sentence. It typically takes many years between the sentence and it being carried out. Because of the seriousness of the punishment there is an automatic appeals process in place. The specifics of the appeals process is different in different states but in all cases it can take a long time. Because you have the right to appeal your conviction and in the case of death penalty cases can do so multiple times I believe. Plus executions are very expensive more so than decades behind bars. Additionally whenever a democrat is president they typically halt all federal executions. They have the right to appeal. This is to protect against a prejudiced judge or jury who may not have had the best intentions when they convicted that person. After they exhaust their appeals they are executed however note that takes a while because pharmaceutical companies refuse to sell the government drugs whose sole intent is to kill someone because of the whole Hippocratic oath bit resulting in people staying on death row often for decades. because of the opportunity of doubt. what if were wrong. theres the chance for us to figure that out and stop the death of a innocent. also although i dont like the wait cuz it costs money the wait itself can be suffering. thinking every day is a closer day to getting shocked to death can be terrifying Death penalty cases are automatically eligible for appeal and reviewed in most states. Then there are legal challenges at both the state and federal level. challenges to the specific case and the death penalty itself. Depending on the state the time frame it takes for all of the court actions to play out can be 10 years to 20 years. Some states no longer even carry out executions. Less than 20% of people receiving death sentences are actually executed. Good thing it’s not immediate we get it wrong far too often. It is estimated that as many as 4% of people actually killed by a state through the death penalty are actually innocent. They are afforded such time to prove their innocence. They have a right to appeal. Unless their appeals have been exhausted they can’t be executed. Some people who give up their right to appeal are executed faster. This also depends if its state or federal. Federal cases tend to drag out for a very long time sometimes decades while the appeals process plays out. Court appeals to try to overturn conviction or sentence. Only when all grounds for appeals are gone will it move forward. There are groups that will fund the appeals solely because they are anti death penalty. It’s more expensive to execute someone than to incarcerate them for life. I don’t know. We should have abolished the death penalty years ago. Because there are tons of appeals. And yes some have been exonerated. However I think we should abolish the death penalty instead. For immigrant criminals deport and permanently ban them from the United States. For citizen criminals life in prison and make them work and pay off their debt to society. Are you asking why the death penalty exists at all and if so why prolong the sentence? There is a long process of appeals the vast majority of individuals sentenced to death go through. I believe that in many/most/all states an appeal is even filed automatically upon the sentence being handed down. Personally I have no problem with this. You cant undo death theres no way to just say Oops our bad well bring you back. If ever there is ever a time to *measure twice cut once* this is it. Should someone exhaust all of their appeals without at least having their sentence reduced to life without parole I feel more confident that the decision reached was a correct one because by then the case has been thoroughly scrutinized by different agencies and individuals. No system is perfect but the appeals are a means of trying to identify as many mistakes as possible. Theres a very lengthy appeals process. Our legal system really doesnt like the idea of executing someone who doesnt deserve it on paper at least. So after being sentenced to death due process still takes years to give them every possible avenue to argue their case. There are examples of people successfully arguing for a lesser sentence and even some cases where they prove their innocence. They have a legal right to appeal. What did you think we just took them out back and shot them? Because they can appeal the sentence. Because they have the right to appeal the conviction which takes time. The court system tends to move very slowly. As others have said its to allow for appeals but also make sure there is time for new evidence or methods to come to light. When Northwestern University started checking death row convictions in Illinois through their Innocent Project after DNA testing became a thing in the 90s they proved that something like 1020% inmates on deathrow in the State were actually incident and couldnt have committed the crime they where convicted of and on death row for because their DNA didnt match the blood/seman of the perpetrator. If you falsely convicte someone thats bad but you can let them out of prison and pay restitution to try and make it right. If you execute the wrong person there is no going back no way to try and make ot right. This is why most Americans oppose the death penalty. There isnt enough faith that police/prosecutors/judges/juries always get it right every single time. Multiple appeals to make sure no stone is not left unturned and that person executed is correct person. I think 20 yrs death row way too long should be more like 5 yrs but American justice system is a joke Because of the severity of the sentence there are mandatory appeals that need to be observed by the courts it is a very long process to make sure that the convicted person’s constitutional legal rights are not violated as they have been charged faced trial convicted by a jury and sentenced appropriately according the the jurisdictional and statute based sentencing guidelines. Many states have abolished the death penalty those that were given death sentences prior to the death penalty being abolished typically have their sentences revised to be life in prison with not possibility of parole. Appeals. A significant number of people have come OFF death row over the years exonerated by DNA evidence. All those innocent people would have been executed if they werent allowed any appeals. Not only the appeals process but resources. Many states with the death penalty have a large backlog of inmates. Its become increasingly hard to procure the drugs its hard to find people who want executioner as their day job and plain old scheduling. Many states dont execute people for years despite having lots on death row because its not a priority. Repealing the death penalty may be unpopular with voters but voters dont complain about being soft on crime when somebody dies of heart disease after being on death row for 20 years. For example despite it being a deep red state which generally correlates to approval of the death penalty. Because the government shouldnt be involved in taking a citizens life to begin with but they do have the opportunity to appeal. To irritate our European betters” that like to lecture us on reddit It’s the appeals process. Trouble is the unintended? consequence of the law’s delay” in the US is years on death row which to me is the definition of cruel and ideally unusual punishment. Broken system. Because sometimes innocent people are on death row and they try” to make sure that doesn’t happen. The right of due process. You cannot appeal your sentence from beyond the grave. Therefore death row inmates cannot be executed until they exhaust the appeals process. It has to do with the perception of psychological control in prisons. The general population in prisons is disciplined through threats of restriction and potential longer sentences. The belief is that once you’ve been sentenced to death you have nothing else to lose so you won’t be as constrained by the threats. So death row is a place that is theoretically both more secure and a place that’s a little nicer to live with more privileges available. Those privileges are there so the guards can. Threaten to take them away if the prisoner misbehaves Think about the tradition of the last meal”. That’s a conditional privilege with the understanding that if the prisoner doesn’t get upset they can have better food and some choice in their diet which has been severely restricted for years at theat point It’s all about control and coercion and making things easier for prison management. You see here many discussions of the reason for delay in executing the sentence but no replies about death row”. Death row is an odd hangover of an old security expedient. In the past prisoners sentenced to death were kept in a small heavily guarded high security block of cells while awaiting execution. These prisoners had the highest motivation to escape so security was high. This cell block in most cases less than a dozen cells was death row”. It often adjoined the execution area/chamber/gallows. There is little reason not to integrate condemned prisoners with the general population of prisoners when there is adequate security. Major barriers have generally been political. Also the lawyers who represent these prisoners are usually all located convenient to death row and resist any change in the location of their clients. California integrated its condemned with the general population fairly recently but it was quite an administrative struggle. Our court system is designed to make it very hard to accidentally convict and then put down an innocent person. After all you can release someone from prison buy you cant unkill someone. They can appeal their case which prolongs their time in death row. Because of litigation. Essentially after someone gets the death penalty they can still appeal numerous times Due process. Innocent people have been given the death sentence and even executed before so there is a VERY long process of appeals etc Our judicial system is broken and always busy so scheduling a court date usually happens weeks or months down the line. Because they have the right to appeal. This process can take ages. If they waived their right to appeal they could be executed straight away. It’s not just one appeal either. Lose one appeal then you can appeal to another court. Lose that one and you can appeal to the next higher court. There is an extensive appeal process. Because they were convicted of an extremely heinous crime or crimes and were sentenced to death by a jury of their peers in a court of law. Why do you think? Every state does it different. Some states dont allow it at all. Some require a time line to consider retrials or new evidence that come to light. The biggest thing is that Texas is the only state that commonly seeks the death penalty and when someone is sentenced to death in a death penalty state that isnt Texas professionals from that state will go to witness a Texas execution to confirm they know how to do it since Texas goes weeks and other states may go years Also out of the respect to the prisoner since they are a human and therefore deserve a quick and painless death even if they didnt grant it to their victims one step in that process is to let them know their death date ahead of schedule to help come to terms with that beforehand. Theres a very good documentary on YouTube about all this from the mostly Texas perspective My father was a material witness in a serial killer’s death penalty’s trial. This was in North Carolina in the 1980s. He was sentenced to death. The killer has lived a full life on death row at Leavenworth. He is still there alive. As a member of the Armed Forces his execution requires presidential approval. He was in the US Army at the time. My dad was his 1st Sergeant back then. The killer was 22 at the time of his sentencing. He is 59 years old now. He has outlived my dad even. My dad died 2 years ago. You should look into the work of the Innocence Project. The criminal justice system in this country is far from perfect. There are many unethical police jurisdictions and DAs who would love nothing more than expedited executions to hide their shoddy work. edit autocorrect 🤦‍♂️ The sentence Death Penalty/Death Row is more complex than it appears to be. Prisoners are put on death row because the legal system aims to avoid irreversible mistakes and ensure justice is thoroughly reviewed. It’s an attempt to balance the punishment with constitutional rights and potential errors in conviction — therefore there are appeals and legal reviews due process and fairness there’s potential for exoneration execution logistics which is lengthy regardless there’s even moral and political pressure. Certain crimes are considered bad enough to qualify for the death penalty. Something like premeditated murder with some kind of enhancement. A lot of times they take a plea deal for life in prison to get the death penalty off the table. Usually those who are on death row are kept segregated from general population. Because the justice system makes a lot of mistakes. Not to mention outright making bad decisions for the wrong reasons. Because you cant bring someone back to life after theyve already been killed. There are systems of appeals in place to try to make sure that a person is really guilty that have to be exhausted first. But innocent people still get killed by the state. People have suggested exactly that. I don’t know exactly what the average length of time is between conviction and execution but it seems like 2530 years. It’s because they’re appealing the sentence and there are a lot of ways they can do it. If they exhaust everything at the state level they can try and get things moved to the federal level. Takes time to get hearings etc. Because they have years and years of appeals. It’s actually less expensive to keep someone in prison for the rest of their life than to execute them. Couple that with the possibility of them being innocent and you’ll never get me to support it. I’d rather put them in a hard labor camp for the rest of their lives. To avoid killing fewer innocent people Because innocent people get convicted all the time. And sometimes executed. So we give them a chance to appeal the verdict and sentence. And that takes time. Usually with a death penalty conviction this is at least one mandatory appeal. Often many. Thankfully death row prisoners can appeal their cases to higher appeals courts right up to the highest court in the United States. Since the reinstatement of states rights to sentence people to the death penalty 200 or more people have had their cases overturned many based on DNA shoddy police work or even evidence planted by law enforcement. I think that if the government is going to take a persons life especially in an imperfect system every stop must be pulled out to ensure everything was afforded in allowing the convinced to prove their innocence. They have a legal right to appeal and even if they lose the appeal it seems like every death row case is then used to challenge the prescribed method of execution against the 8th Ammendment prohibiting cruel and unusual punishment Theres also issues with alot of states not being able to procure the lethal injection drugs or companies refusing to sell to prisons. Basically were barbaric enough to have the death penalty in the year of our lord 2025 but not so barbaric that we rush people to the death chamber as fast as possible. I havent seen the stats but it wouldnt surprise me if more people died on death row of causes other than being executed than are actually executed. There is a lengthy appeals process. You can appeal. Courts get it wrong all the time. States with the death penalty have already killed innocent people and I’m sure they’ll kill more. Because we have the right to appeal. This is a protection in case there was an error and an innocent person gets convicted. Simply put our justice system puts a lot of innocent people on death row and there needs to be time to appeal. profit dead inmates = 0 profits The legal system in the U.S. is full of contradictions and there are scads of issues that people can’t agree on. I myself am against the death penalty for a few reasons one of the main ones being that the FIRST TIME a nation executes an innocent person they should immediately lose their right to use the death penalty. The death penalty has levels of mandatory appeals to higher courts and executive pardon. It takes many years sometimes decades for a death sentence to actually be carried out. One of our founding principles has been better a 100 guilty go free then one innocent gets convicted. This seems to have been forgotten currently but considering theres no coming back from an execution you have to give them every chance to prove that they were wrongfully convicted. Because you can easily set a wrongly convicted inmate free apologize and give them a settlement to start rebuilding their life with. Its hard to do that to somebody whos already been executed. You cant undo an execution... The USA has a system that provides the right of appeals to the convicted and that process takes years. You do know we convict innocent people and let them go instead of killing them don’t you? It is /was a joke in California. At one point it took five years for an inmate to even be assigned a lawyer for appeals. Life without is good enough since we have barely utilized the death penalty through the years. They have lots of time to appeal.. there are several examples of death row inmates being proven innocent after decades of Mix of appealing conviction and ensuring that all evidence relevant to the case is catalogued. In some cases innocent individuals have been wrongfully sentenced but new evidence clears their name. What if.......and I know this sounds crazy because every person is super smart and not at all corrupted by their own biases......but what if theyre innocent and wrongly convicted? Because there has to be an opportunity for them to appeal their sentence. We shouldn’t execute people at all but we absolutely should not be executing people the minute the jury returns a verdict. Endless appeals plus the book and movie industries need sufficient time to interview the condemned for the obligatory true crime novel and subsequent film. Because when the punishment is killing someone you better be damn sure you got it right. People are put to death by juries of morons. Literally the same idiots you see on the street are the ones put on juries. Sure they do voir dire to weed people out but plenty of people lack common sense and rationality and then are put in charge of deciding if a person lives or dies. People on death row have to be given an opportunity to appeal. It’s extremely important if the person is actually innocent and make no mistake innocent people have been put to death and many more have been exonerated after years of being on death row. If there’s even a sliver of a chance someone could be innocent they deserve to be heard if they feel they were tried unfairly and sentenced to death unjustly. They have to be given a chance to appeal and all legal systems are SLOW A death penalty sentence costs taxpayers 3x more on average than life in prison. Court costs and appeals run into the millions. Because they are appealing their case... why should they ot be afforded due process??? and Death row isnt a thing its just the term used for people who have been sentenced to death. The reason they are separated in prison aside from them being in prison because they have to exhaust legal options first is they have nothing to lose” so they are dangerous around inmates who arent om death row and can be disciplined. Its hard to discipline someone whose going to die. Appeals even when they are caught red handed or the evidence is true.Lame system we have here. You have the right to appeal any criminal conviction. The appeal process for a death penalty case is particularly extensive because unlike a prison sentence they can’t go back later and be like oops you were wrongly convicted. We’ll just bring you back to life and agree to a settlement for the trouble.” Appeals process takes a long time. Due process They want to exhaust all options and proof before killing someone. The prisoners who are placed on death row have been received the ultimate sentence of death for their crimes. They are generally the worst of the worst and they are not integrated into the general population. When someone is condemned to death they automatically receive an appeal. They are often given new lawyers. Once the appeal process is over the lawyers generally appeal to the governor for a stay and ultimately clemency. This is not a hasty process nor should it be. When someone is sentenced to death it is very rare and very serious. If you are sentenced to death there is an automatic appeal process and the process can be quite lengthy. They generally give you all the opportunities to exhaust all of your legal options before finally setting a date. By the time you get put to death the relevant district courts appeal courts and supreme courts for both state and federal the governor and the US President will all be given the opportunity to consider and pass on the chance to stop the execution and/or reconsider the case. Appeals. Because they still have rights. Something that non Americans seem to not understand. We arent really sold on the death penalty. Half dont use it a few states do often. Recent polling shows a majority of Americans are now against it. This has always been a significant portion of the population and the due process and 6th amendment tend to put the brakes on executions in most states. There is a pretty long and drawn out appeals process in many cases the death penalty is required to be appealed. They have a right to appeal so they wait on death row for years while lawyers work their case. Its absurdly expensive and one of the reasons Im opposed to the death penalty. Id prefer it be reserved for terrorists mass shooters and the like where we just give them the firing squad after the trail. Good question. Because death is permanent so any appeals have to be completed prior to death. They have to have time to appeal their case. It can take years of appeals and reappeals. Appeals are a part of due process The appeals process takes years. We want to be sure that we got it right. They need the opportunity to appeal. Post 19 Are Target and GameStop dying? From NonAmerican I heard in the news that Target and GameStop are closing some of their branches and face declining sales is it all true or it is some media clickbait? Target will survive. People will always need at least *some* brickandmortar stores for general purchases. GameStop Im not so sure will. The very concept of physical video games is for better or worse on the way out. Target is still building and opening stores in my area. I personally don’t shop there but I have not witnessed a decline. GameStop has been dying for 15 years it’s like the sick old man of the American retail environment. As for Target it’s probably fine long term. Gamestop has been struggling for a decade or more. When nearly every other store sells the same products you sell often at comparable or cheaper prices and do it with less BS your business is going to struggle. Target is just kind of going through a rough year for a few reasons and arguably rougher than other retailers. Rough years are normal its not a collapse. I was just at Target earlier today and it was very busy. Target? No. Its doing fine. GameStop has been on life support for years. The only reason they still exist is because of meme stock bros. GameStop? Probably not going to last much longer Target? People on liberal side of the political spectrum arent happy with them ending their DEI company policy and what is seen as them rolling over and showing their belly to the current administration. There have been calls for a boycott and articles have been published reporting that their foot traffic/sales are down from last quarter. There has also outside of politics been a discussion about how the vibe of 2025 Target just isnt the same as 2014 Target. They sell a lot more junk and its just not as antiWalmart as it once was. Well Target is busy alienating its core demographics and Gamestop runs on an increasingly obsolete business model and has been over leveraged for over a decade at this point so its not looking great. Target is the second largest retailer in the country so theyre not going anywhere anytime soon. GameStop on the other hand isnt looking good. With the sale of physical games on a sharp decline their stores are basically empty. My target parking lot is always full. GameStop doesn’t have a huge reason to exist going forward. It’s why they sell so much stuff they isn’t gaming I live where target is headquartered. Target will continue to thrive. Middle class suburbanites live for target. Target will survive but they might have to close a few stores since there are honestly too many of them. GameStop is fucked. Theyve been on a downward slide since the two previous console generations and the only thing thats kept them afloat has been the morons who invested in them for the memes who got caught up in their own conspiracy theories about shorting the entire American economy. Target is definitely still busy despite people claiming to boycott it Declining branches are closed all the time of companies that are doing fine overall. Closing stores is not necessarily a sign of a dying company. On a similar note Microsoft has been doing layoffs when doing better than ever. With that being said GameStop is objectively dying. At their peak they had 6K stores compared to just 3K stores now. 99% of the time there is no reason to shop at GameStop when ecommerce exists. Their revenue and profitability are both significantly lower than their highs in the past. Target on the other hand is not dying but is going through a rough patch because of political issues. These issues are transitory and most people will just forget about it. Their store count is at all time highs around 2K stores. Their revenue is near all time highs. Last years profit was still their 3rd most profitable year of all time with only 2021 and 2022 beating 2024 out Tldr target is fine. GameStop is dying Target is doing fine from my understanding. In my opinion GameStop is already dead and is basically a zombie right now. Target is the only big boxstyle retailer that has cracked clothing so that alone will keep them good. GS is a zombie subsidiary that should’ve died before it became a meme stock. As someone who worked at gamestop the only means of making money they do is through warranties preowned titles merchandise like figures and plushes and pro memberships which is why the job is so much more of a sales job than retail. Now Im going into quite possibly the complete opposite of the business field but with the very real shift towards digital gaming that is a business set up for failure. Every time I go into a Target its packed full of people. Gamestop has been struggling for years. I dont see it living much longer. I stopped even looking at them in 2012 Contrary to what Reddit says Target is not dying. You have to remember Reddit is an echo chamber. They’re still building and expanding. GameStop might be but Target is extremely well run. The reason Target would close a store is that its not making its return on investment targets. GameStop has been on a decline for a long time—there’s little value in physical game collections at this point as the games themselves are often just digital keys. A large chunk of GameStop stores is collectibles and funko pops which there’s no reason to go to when malls have 3 other stores selling the same products. Target is not on a decline at all they’re still upscale Walmart” and have transitioned fairly successfully to online retail as well. I’m not sure why they’d be lumped in with Walmart target sells home essentials and groceries while GameStop sells exclusively nonessential products Target is totally fine gamestop is a bit grim. I went in one yesterday 2 employees no customers. Games have taken a back seat to collectible items. Theyre clearly struggling. Its sad. I went to a GameStop a couple weeks ago. Half the store was toys. Random collectable stuff statues figures whatever. Then a huge wall dedicated to Funko. Not as much presence of actual games. And sometimes new games are on sale for $30 less than their used titles. GameStop is probably done in 35 years. They keep limping on but fewer and fewer people buy physical copies of games anymore and they sell controllers and toys but other stores sell those too. Its *possible* they survive but will probably close a massive chunk of their stores. Target will be fine long term but really shot themselves in the foot over the last several months. They’re hurting right now as they used to be seen as a slightly more upscale and slightly more progressive version of WalMart. They reversed a lot of policies and are sucking up to Trump right now which has alienated a lot of their customers but people will forget in time and people will always have need for a lower end department store/grocery store one stop shop” kind of combo store in most of the country theirs really only WalMart and Target that fit that market. Target just opened a brand new store right near me they seem to be doing fine Target sells general merchandise so itll survive and will probably stop carrying physical video games just like a lot of stores did with physical movies and music. GameStop is another story. Since games are their thing they might need to find a way to pivot in a way thats game adjacent but only time will tell if they manage to find a way to do something before completely going out. Target survives. GameStop not so sure. For a long time GameStop’s most reliable revenue stream was cell phone contracts. In the old days when you signed up for a new phone and new contract the store you signed up with got a kickback every month forever to really really encourage those stores to sell phone contracts. GameStop used to buy up those revenue streams as a sort of annuity so that random mom and pop store could cash out the future payments instead of waiting for them. Was a cash cow for GameStop for years and years and years. Nowadays they make more money selling Pokemon and plushies and the like than they do the actual video games they’re named for. They’ve been able to pivot to new revenue streams better than a lot of their peers. And I wouldn’t be surprised if they navigate this future as well. People complain about Walmart but refuse to shop anywhere else When Target dropped their DEI diversity equity and inclusion programs after Trump was elected the has been a huge backlash and many people including me have stopped shopping at Target. There was an organized boycott by black pastors to boycott Target during Lent. That plus increasing prices have caused a huge impact to their bottom line. The CEO will dance around the reason for their decline but it isnt too hard to figure it out. GameStop has been dying for like a decade due to the increase in digital content delivery I only own like 5 physical games and an overall outdated business model. Target is seeing a pretty substantial decline in sales due to certain groups boycotting them since they walked back their DEI diversity equity and inclusion programs to kowtow the current administration. Not sure they are dying” but they seem to be hurting. Target no way. GameStop probably. Target is seeing a small decline as shoppers upset with their pullback on DEI/gay pride due to Trump admin pressure. It’s reducing sales/revenues a little but not going to have major in the long run Gamestop is doing great yes they have been closing stores in countries and locations that were unprofitable but their profitability is slowly increasing and they have a shit load of cash to survive with their current burn rate for decades. Full disclosure Im a huge investor in gamestop so Im biased but the facts are in the balance sheet GameStop is on its last breath. I haven’t been inside one in probably 12 years and with the popularity of digital downloads and cloud storage physical discs and special deals” that GameStop used to be able to offer just don’t appeal as much. They also have always paid shit for tradein’s. GameStop’s been dying for 20 years… it just keep holding on though although the Reddit stock thing from a few years back really helped it GameStop has slowly been dying for a decade now. I haven’t been to one in 5 years don’t really have a reason to go anymore. Target is not going anywhere GameStop good riddance GameStop is definitely dying but the Switch 2 launch seemed to be a boon for them. Target will be fine though. Their CEO just pissed their base off so there have been boycotts that have caused a dip in sales but they are still making a LOT of money. Target is going through some shit right now but far from dying. Target is experiencing a decline in sales but isn’t likely to die anytime soon. It’s a major big box chain that a lot of people rely on. GameStop is in rougher shape and I’m honestly surprised it’s still around. So many online and brick and mortar retailers sell games it’s hard to compete. I won’t be shocked if it’s mostly gone in five years but again they did surprised me by sticking around this long. Target is like Walmart. They sell everything. They’ll be around. I don’t know how Gamestop is still in business though. Target is probably fine Gamestop will probably die very soon since the whole physical game concept in itself is dying off. Well unless some Redditor saves Gamestop again. I will say though my childhood Gamestop shut down sadly. Target will be fine in the long run. They pissed off a lot of people but overall their stores are still very profitable. Target isnt doing well at the moment but it seems like they will survive. They may not be a profitable as theyve been in the past few years but it looks like they will still sustainable for the foreseeable future. I interviewed with Target back in December for a logistics role. During the interview I told them I was excited that if they hired me immediately I would have enough of a working knowledge of their systems and procedures to help them deal with the supply change disruptions due to the upcoming tariffs. The mood changed immediately and the VP looked sour and told me they didnt expect any supply disruptions due to tariffs and then they kind of just ended the interview there. So yeah. Somebody at the top made some really bad calls over the last few months and is now reaping their reward. I do think GameStop is on the way out but unlike many others here also think Target is in danger of following KMart’s fate. I say this solely based on my own anecdotal experience that I’m finding they are sometimes more expensive on things than a local supermarket in the same plaza and it’s not a discount supermarket. Also they frequently are out of stock or have issues with in stock items. Finally I find things like the men’s clothing area to be very limited and/or overpriced for what you are getting/where you are. The end result for me is they have moved from being a place I’d go for a lot of one stop shopping to a place I go to only for a specific deal. Target I would be shocked if it died. Gamestop has been slowly dying for years. honestly the last few times Ive gone in there was to buy a steam card and a funkopop or squishmallow. I cannot tell you the last time I bought a physical game. Yes GameStop is failing you should probably sell all your stocks of them *buys* Gamestop closed by me but the Target is pretty busy. Target made a horrible miscalculation and leadership are suffering the consequences of their actions. After building a client base of young diverse ecoconscious and often queer shoppers in urban and suburban middle class areas through both product procurement and advertising they attempted to do a 180 on being woke” to avoid the consequences of what happens when Trump sicks his sycophants on a company. All they managed to do was piss off everyone. They’ll be around because the apolitical and those who don’t participate in boycotts will still shop there—especially in places where they’re the only real department store. But leadership is going to have to close some stores so they don’t take a pay cut. The Target parking lot is a lot less crowded where I live but still busy. Target is as busy as ever where i live. Target isnt but GameStop probably is. Sales have declined in Target but thats likely a combination of economic uncertainty and consumer backlash for various political reasons. GameStop on the other hand has lost a huge portion of their business to online downloads. Theyve tried to transition from a video game store to a store that sells things related to video games and I just dont see much longterm success there. Yes and no. GameStop got a lot of money from the memestock hype of 20202021. But their core business is fundamentally broken so their race to being a glorified treasuries and bond fund is underway. Target is kinda in the shits. The CEO is a Sideshow Bob level imbecile who doesnt know his audience and manages to Cheddar Bob his company seemingly on a quarterly basis. Though with Targets size any death would be long and protracted. Feels like Gamestop has been dying a slow death for awhile now aside from their terrible trade in policies and prices on used games gaming companies like most media are trying very hard to switch to digital everything because they dont want people to physically own the stuff they buy. Target probably wont die but there has been a lot of antiTarget stuff going around due to them dropping DEI programs and policies. I dont think theres really any organized boycott just in general people refusing to shop there because of the choices the company made when Trump became president. GameStop is in a weird place physical video game sales continue to decline but they actually have really enhanced their presence in the collectibles space. Not just Pokemon plushes or Funko pops either they usually have a good to great selection of TCG and sports cards. The PSA partnership really boosts traffic too. However they are shuttering a bunch of stores reportedly. Target is facing declining sales due to boycott but I wouldnt say theyre in major trouble. They may decide to ditch a few stores but the 5yearoutlook on them is pretty stable. Target no GameStop hopefully GameStop as a physical store at least probably won’t make it much/any further than the end of this decade imo. Target probably will although they are facing some pretty big financial woes currently for a variety of reasons. As someone who worked at target for a few months not to long ago you can definitely tell by the way they staff their stores that the company is struggling right now at a corporate level. One of the things that has me wondering about the future of game stores like GameStop is if the model that Nintendo is going with for games will succeed. Nintendo is planning on charging more for physical copies of games something in the neighborhood of $10 more and many of those physical games are going to be nothing more than a game key card that allows you to download the game. What is the purpose of a games store if the games youd buy there are a more expensive version of doing the exact same thing youd do if you bought it off the digital storefront? Sure they could still sell the consoles and accessories but those tend to be one time purchases and not routine purchases like buying games for the consoles is. Store closures aren’t new. Companies do that all the time even when they are not in financial distress. I think Target will be fine in the long run. They have a loyal following and like to position them self as not Walmart” and frankly that can be a strong position sometimes. GameStop does not seem to be in the same boat. They are running at an operating loss meaning that they aren’t making money doing their core business of selling games. Many companies are phasing out physical games with Nintendo recently taking a huge step forward in the journey to abandon physical games. Plus GameStop just has a negative perception. Most gamers can think of at least one clear instance where a GameStop location was being beyond difficult. These factors likely could combine in a way where GameStop is no longer a thing. It’ll just be another circuit city. Gamestop is struggling. Im sure theres someone with the Metrics on Target but turning off comments on socials because youre getting clowned on while a lot of people boycott you has to be rough. GameStop doesnt have particularly good prices sells a bunch of random toys now then pushes preorders and warranties on games for some reason as if theyre actually important and will run out of games or not have the preorder bonus that was expected. And every time that happens I can just run into a Target and buy the same game that was impossible for GameStop get. Its crazy that GameStop has survived as long as it has. I think some game stops are adapting. I have one in my area thats becoming more of a place for people to go and play Magic Pokemon One Piece Etc target is perfectly fine. i thought gamestop already closed to be honest. Everything is dying from personal observation I think the current Pokemon card craze is getting GameStop more foot traffic than the actual video games at this point People arent going to Target because they decided to abandon DEI and ride the Trump train. Target is fine. News on Reddit says no one goes there yet day and night when I drive by them they are just as busy as Walmart. Depends on what area you are on I suppose. Weird story I was walking home from doing some grocery shopping and these two ladies all of a sudden started pointing at the target bags I was reusing and calling me a fascist. Apparently not only was there an active boycott against target I happened to get groceries on a day where people were supposed to not go shopping at all. I didnt even go to target that day. Target is still going strong and I don’t foresee it going anywhere for a long time. Though Kmart and Sears were on top of the world at one point too as were a lot of other department stores that have since shuttered. GameStop has been gasping for air for a long time now and unless they pivot drastically they won’t be around much longer. I think that’s what they tried to do with the retro thing but they halfassed it and most retro” stores are literally nothing more than a shelf or two of games that are barely even really retro in the first place. Like nothing older than PS2. Their Think Geek stores are probably doing better but I’m not sure that’s enough to prop up the whole company. I doubt it is unless they change their whole business model. It sucks because while I’m not a fan of GameStop in general it’s death will most likely go hand in hand with the death of physical for new games at least and that’s something I’m not looking forward to. Hopefully. Target is going to be fine. The flavor of the month” activists are unhappy with them. But most people don’t care. GameStop has been dying for years but has been kept afloat somewhat artificially. I can’t tell you the last time was in a GameStop it’s been so many years. I haven’t been to target in a few years either. I don’t have a reason to go to either My local Target is doing a massive rearranging there are something like 30 big storage containers in the parking lot and they have started roping off interior areas. I wonder what’s up. GameStop is like the new RadioShack. A brick and mortar retailer that has just been slowly and painfully dying for about a decade. Honestly if it wasn’t for that short squeeze a few years ago I bet they would have already gone under. GameStop has been on the brink of bankruptcy for a long time. You can find games elsewhere and its survived this long because of the 2021 short squeeze. Theyll probably be gone within the next 10 years. As for Target its far more complicated. Theyve been struggling because consumers are mad at them for slashing their DEI policies. But I think theyll pull through because at the end of the day theyre a store that sells so much stuff that so many people rely on. Im sure that if they ever decide to backtrack former Target shoppers would return. Before this Target had a history of uplifting queer and POC businesses. But because of that past several rightwingers dont shop there. A lot of leftwings dont like them now because they feel like Target is bowing to fascism by removing their DEI policies. So now were at a point where neither the farthest right nor the farthest left will shop from Target. The only reason GameStop still exists is the meme stock frenzy from 2021 and the idiots willing to continue to invest in it. If youre comfortable reading financial disclosures and quarterly and annual reports its spelled out right there that GameStops CEO is basically trying to turn them into a Bitcoin holding company. He has no interest in the retail operations and leases are expiring. The one thing I will give him credit for is that he stopped the bleeding on the operations side but none of the new financing coming in is dedicated to what people consider GameStop. Target’s big issue is they are alienating their core demographics. They built a brand around being an alternative to Walmart. A lot of the people who saw them as an alternative now see them as a pale imitator. More than likely this will change. It just takes time for a corporation that size to feel the impact in their pockets har har. There will always be a need for merchants in entertainment but Gamestop’s reliance on physical media and presence will be their undoing. Their target demographic loves the convenience of ordering online and picking it up off their doorstep. Gamestop largely survives right now off its appeal to grandparents. That’s not a winning strategy for a video game retailer. Brick and mortar stores are dying. Its one reason why its important to not buy everything from Amazon. If they become the only big player in the game they then set all pricing and quality on items they want. Theres a lot of politics behind target. Target marketed to and had strong demographic of white upper middle class liberal women. Last year they removed their DEI stuff and now their main demo is boycotting them. With GameStop theyre pivoting strongly after losing to steam and marketing more to collectables tcgs and novelties. If you walked into one today youd realize theyre more of a corporate owned comic book store today just without the comics and less of a game retailer. Theyre the largest TCG dealer and in some ways the largest pawn shop in the world theyll survive. People like to hate on them for their prices they buy stuff at and I honestly think its a bit unfair. They offer a deal and its the consumers choice to take it or not. Gamestop still sells consoles and is heavily getting into trading cards. If they shift into trading cards theyll be ok. As local card shops dont have the purchasing power I think there are two entirely different issues at play. Target is responding to location specific surges in shoplifting. Its huge. They have some other social issues around DEI and specifically 2SLGBTQIA+. American conservatives shied away in the face of Pride being brought to the fore. When Target backed away American progressives left in droves but conservatives didnt come back. Target like WalMart and Amazon is a core of American shopping and will recover from the social issues. They seem to have learned their lesson and are staying away from politics. Store closures are entirely as far as I can tell due to shoplifting. Target will come out of this dip a stronger company. Gamestop is struggling with both online shopping and online gaming so they are becoming irrelevant. There are some collateral issues but I think they just arent competitive. Im reminded of the failure of Tower Records. I dont know how long it will take for them to die but I think theyre dying. lol GameStop is not going anywhere. They have like 5 billion in the bank and they are adapting to consumer changes. Well Im all done with Target. Its still there. I see people parked there. Ive never bought anything at GameStop. Who knows I also heard about Chipotle closing but thats an online myth. Target sales were down 2.8% from last year. Clearly the chain is dying. Target is having difficulties due to their DEI policy and people are boycotting. They’ll survive. For some reason GameStop always survives. This thread is blowing my mind. Like almost no one knows the predatory nature of Boston consulting group or how they issue criminal loans and then cannibalise the companies unable to keep up with the interest rates imposed while simultaneously forcing their board of directors to make bad decisions through majority votes. GameStop is doing fine. They ditched BCG and have closed many of the stores BCG forced them to open as well as selling off their foreign holdings in order to focus on their own US market. I hold shares in GameStop and shop there regularly. Ryan Cohen is a tactical and capable CEO. Target on the other hand is not doing so great. Gamestop has been swirling the bowl for years now. Overall it seems pretty much inevitable they will eventually fail. Target is in trouble. Theyve done a pretty good job branding themselves as a bougie Walmart but they are getting killed by online retailers mostly Amazon that can easily provide the same niche products for a fraction of the price. They could easily make some missteps and go bankrupt or they could have some success and outlive their online competitors. I hope so. Big box stores are literally killing this country All brick and mortar retail is in trouble which is fine because there are better uses for physical space like places that build community. Post 20 Is it frowned upon if you bring certain products to specific states? I have a coworker who used to live in Florida and he said there is a stigma with bringing certain products to the state. For example if you bring something from Wegman’s to Florida people won’t like that since Publix is huge there. And also Floridians don’t like Publix products from leaving their state. What if let’s say I buy snacks from Florida Publix and bring it to Colorado or Minnesota. Would that be breaking a socialrule? I have never heard of this. No one cares about that shit. The only thing Im aware of is the taboo of bringing salsa made in New York City to Oklahoma/Texas. No one besides your coworker cares. If I learned anything from commercials as a kid never buy your salsa from New York City... Your coworker is either trolling you or is a very strange person. Huh? Publix is in multiple states including my own. This is not a thing that Im aware of. Never heard of this. They probably just mean its easy to tell youre a tourist and most people with big tourist seasons dont like tourists. But whatever you want from wherever you want. Your coworker is messing with you. No your coworker has too much attachment to grocery store chains What I don’t understand why that would be an issue No in fact there are entire business based on bringing regional snacks and beverages to other areas that dont have them. See also the actual plot of Smokey and the Bandit. I think someone is pulling your leg if you bring something from Wegman’s to Florida people won’t like that since Publix is huge there. This is what I would consider to be an insane take. Your friend I either full of shit or bat shit insane. Either way take everything they say with a grain of salt nay a massive dose of salt going forward. You should see what happens in Chicago if you are over the age of 12 and bring ketchup near a hotdog. Never heard of it. Somewhat related moving produce livestock or fire wood can be restricted depending on where youre going. No one cares what grocery store you use. I cant imagine anyone ever even mentioning it. I live in Florida no this is not a thing. And also Floridians don’t like Publix products from leaving their state. Thats weird. Other states have Publix mine included. Are you sure your coworker isnt just messing with you? Im from Florida and I have never heard of this. Maybe its regional within the state though. I’ve never heard of any such stigma in my life and I’ve lived in the states my entire life 34 years Absolutely not. If someone in public gave me grief for what brand of snacks I’m carrying then I’d assume they are a lunatic. Super weird and untrue. Take whatever you want. The person who told you that is a moron. I live in Illinois and there’s a beer that’s only sold in Wisconsin. If someone at works say they’re going to WI for the weekend somebody might ask them to bring back some Spotted Cow buts that’s about it. Anyone that cares about that even the slightest bit is a loser that needs to find better things to do with their time and energy. No one cares where groceries come from Literally no one else cares. Also we have Publix in Kentucky now so its moving north anyway. I cannot conceivably imagine anyone giving a shit about this. No one knows what store stuff comes from. Where did you get that? I’ve never heard of anything like that. I live in Massachusetts and drove to Naples and Orlando FL and North Carolina a bunch of times in the last 5 years. No one could care less what stores you shop at. Transplants sometimes waxed nostalgic at different brands locally unavailable from back home” if I had one with me but nothing more than that. It’s not like Publix is the only grocery store. Lots shop at Walmart and Target. Sounds like your coworker is an odd one. I guess the only social issue would be if you were outwardly a snob about the product. But thats just an annoying habit regardless of context. Nope thats not a thing as far as I know. Very slight exception might be in Vermont regarding maple syrup. I wouldnt tell my neighbors if I bought maple syrup from another state. That would be dumb because Vermont clearly has the superior maple syrup. And I make my own anyway or I could easily buy some from a neighbor who makes it. I dont think theres brand or store loyalty though. Were not much into big stores in Vermont. No no one cares about that. The only thing I can think of is that if you are visiting an area know for a specific type of food like say Barbecue and you bought a cheap store made version that’s not authentic people might make fun of you. Like slow cooked ribs with a homemade sauce and you show up with a bottle of Walmart sauce. I’ve never noticed or cared where the products anyone buys are from. The closest I can think of is California not wanting any out of state produce coming in to the point of having inspection stations at the border. This is to try to prevent agricultural pests from coming into the state not because of brand loyalty. What? I have never heard of anybody giving a poo where you buy stuff and bring across state lines. For the most part it just jokes and not people actually being serious… Although my friend once got assaulted and kicked out of a Deli in Philadelphia because he said he doesn’t like Heinz and asked for another type of ketchup so there’s that but that’s just Philadelphia. Nobody cares. If they do just keep your mouth shut about where you got it. I cannot imagine anyone caring about this in the slightest. What the heck kind of brand loyalty is this?? Ive never heard of this and it sounds insane. If anyone noticed or cared I would consider them an ingrateful weirdo. Ive never heard of this and probably wouldnt be able to identify if a product came from one grocery store or another. Not sure if Floridians are just particular about this but in NJ we dont care about you. It depends if you do it to share a treat that’s unique to the area like maple syrup from Vermont that’s appreciated. If you bring something that you’re saying is better than the local options my Wegmans potato chips are better than the local chips from Publix that’s generally considered rude. how is a Wegmans coke different from a Publix coke? 🤔 by the same token what diff. does it make if a Publix product is smuggled over to another state? 🤔 I really don’t think normal people care that much about their grocery store brands. As a proud Californian I really can’t think of anything like that. Beyond of course don’t bring diseased plants in that’s bad for the local agriculture. No one knows where you bought it. This is just silly. sometimes it can be illegal to sell items out of state. this is pretty rare but a wellknown example at least in the upper midwest is New Glarus beer which can only be sold in Wisconsin. https//www.chicagotribune.com/2015/04/21/minnesotabarbustedforsellingwisconsinbeer/. you can *bring* New Glarus beer wherever you want but you cant sell it. as for items from random grocery stores I cant imagine anyone caring very much about that. No. People are often excited to try snacks from other states. i dont think this js a florida thing. i think this is a &ltyour coworker thing It’s not a thing and people frequent go to other states for stuff you can’t find locally. Ive never heard of it in fact Ive heard the opposite. In fact there was a whole movie about smuggling products over state lines where its not available https//en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Smokey_and_the_Bandit Apart from that there are of course laws preventing you from bringing certain things to places like Hawaii for obvious reasons https//hdoa.hawaii.gov/pi/pq/travelshippinginformation/travelingfromtheusmainlandtohawai%CA%BBi/ Maybe this is a thing in FL? I’ve never experienced any stigma in any state I’ve visited or lived in. My only experience bringing Wegman’s products anywhere is folks are jealous if they don’t have access to a Wegmen’s. The exception being Texans who will automatically tell you HEB is better. There’s no stigma involved though only friendly competition. Maybe your coworker is just messing with you? You can literally buy specialty products from areas like there’s a whole business model for it where you can buy Chicago style pizza aka a pizza flavored casserole St Louis style pizza aka pizza on a cracker with distinct cheese NYC style pizza giant and folds Lobsters from Maine cakes from NJ… etc etc. That sounds positively weird. The only thing I can think of is that some states restrict movement of certain products to prevent the spread a agricultural pests. California has Agricultural inspection stations on road entering the state and Maine and some other New England states forbid the importation of firewood to prevent importing treeattacking insects and diseases as well. LOL this is one of the silliest posts Ive seen here in a while! No none of that is true. Most people support their local industries because through taxes and employment opportunities those local industries support their local economy and population. However it would not make sense for the residents of Florida to be opposed to Publix expanding outside of Florida. More Publix stores throughout the country means more jobs for Floridians at the corporate offices of Publix. More accounts lawyers janitors cake bakers etc. My half brother works for Publix in the department responsible for the expansion of the company. Believe me he wants Publix to be large and profitable as the company’s bottom lines directly effects his salary and 401K. This isn’t limited to states and localities. When I to worked for Coke I would have never purchased a Pepsi. My father worked for General Electric and while growing up every appliance in our house was GE. No your coworker is a weirdo. This isnt a thing. No one cares. That must be a personal thing to your friend because not only have I never heard of this its usually considered nice if you bring things from your region/state when visiting people elsewhere. For example I visit friends in Michigan every summer and I bring them Pennsylvania snacks like TastyKakes and PAonly chip flavors and when I am visiting I will make trips to Krogers and Meijers to get things like Faygo to take home. Absolutely not. Lol people dont have serious allegiances to grocery stores. At best this is facetious in nature. Your coworker is trolling you. I have never heard that anyone cared about products from particular brands or stores being brought to another state. Either your coworker is joking or he’s a moron. How insular of a life does someone live?! I have never heard of such a stigma I’ve never heard of anything like that anywhere I’ve lived in the northeast midwest or Pacific northwest. A subset of Floridians treat Publix like a religion. This phenomenon doesnt really have analogues to grocery chains in other parts of the country. Your coworker is a very strange person. Floridians do like Publix it is is one of the better supermarket chains in the USA but 99.9% of people would not mind trying something not available in their area. Either your coworker is jerking your chain or this is one of the dumbest things I’ve ever heard. Ive never heard of this. that sounds made up Ive never heard of anything like that except that Mayflower Moving better stay the hell out of Maryland! Its because of the Colts the football team. They used to be the Baltimore Colts then the owner snuck them out of the city in a Mayflower Moving truck... it was a whole thing. Oh good heavens I can’t imagine anyone caring about this. Post 21 If your state was a sovereign independent country would you live in it? Considering the economy politics leadership state laws culture etc. if your state was a sovereign independent country would you want to live in it? I started thinking about this and I’m not sure if I would. There are a lot of federal protections and programs that I’m not sure my state would assume if it was on its own. This subreddit is for civil discussion political threads are not exempt from this. As a reminder * Do not report comments because they disagree with your point of view. * Do not insult other users. Personal attacks are not permitted. * Do not use hate speech. You will be banned permanently. * Comments made with the intent to push an agenda push misinformation soapbox sealion or argue in bad faith are not acceptable. If you can’t discuss a topic in good faith and in a respectful manner do not comment. **Political disagreement does not constitute pushing an agenda.** If you see any comments that violate the rules **please report it and move on!** *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Um. It’s complicated. No. It would quickly turn into an LDS theocracy. Considering I’ve had family members live here for at least 1000 years I say yes. Yes. I live in NY. California is my state and I would absolutely live here if we became our own country. I live in Massachusets and yes I would. thats the dream No. I think a lot of states would collapse economically without the federal government. They wouldn’t have the expertise to make treaties that would benefit their citizens. They wouldn’t be able to put the necessary infrastructure in place to run as an independent country. They wouldn’t have the military power to remain an independent country for more than a couple of months if that. The National Guard would not be there to support them. Nor would any current federal military base. The buildings might remain but the soldiers and all the gear would go back to the federal government if that even still existed. Definitely not. The thought of DeSantis and the Florida legislature having that much power is very unpleasant. Im in Texas so nope. I’d live in Hawaii yes but the fact that realistically China would probably occupy it as soon as the last American military vessel left definitely gives me pause. Yes. Id vote for it right now honestly. Free Cascadia! I’d never leave MA if it was its own country Edit but it’s not so I did 6 months ago and I’ll prob be back by end of next year. No The land and multiracial culture of Louisiana is wonderful. The government is horrendous. If I could afford to live in a blue state or even a purple state I would leave. As a Californian I would probably complain a lot about some things that would change immediately but generally be happier. I don’t even want to live in it as a state I definitely would remain in California if it was its own country Absolutely not if Texas becomes its own country that means the crazy people won and I hope I’d be able to get out before that happened. Yes although if every state was it’s own sovereign country I would migrate to California Washington State. Fuck yes I would stay ✌️ Yes but Id prefer to band together with the rest of New England and maybe include the midAtlantic states too. Washington State definitely! But it would be nice for both of us if British Columbia joined us. Not the same as *we’re going to invade Canada* more like *Hi there we’ve got Trader Joe’s and you’ve got really great restaurants let’s hook up*. Also together we would totally rock international trade. Virginia did leave the Union once and it did not go well. Yes. I live in Illinois which is a lot of times top 5 in whatever list of the US states you look at. Our governor is from a billionaire family they own the Hyatt chain of hotels but hes doing an amazing job and clearly loves public service. I think hed be an amazing President but unfortunately hes fat so hed be too easy for Republicans to rally jokes around. The only thing the state really sucks for is nature. Its beautiful if you love forests and plains. Otherwise its probably in the bottom half of the US for natural beauty. Fuck no I think Pennsylvania could hold our own but we’d be unstoppable if we created a PANJNYNew England union. No. We’d be so screwed. Absolutely no I don’t even like as a dependent state Massachusetts. 100%. Its where I live because I love how they run it. As a Missourian I dont want to live here as is. Yes … depends on how tight we make the border with PA and how much higher we’d make the taxes. But as of now I’d be mostly fine with staying in Jersey I think so. Hawaii was doing just fine as its own kingdom before the Americans overthrew the monarchy in the late 1800s. Red state. No. I don’t even wanna live here now. Fuck yeah and were taking Oregon Washington and Hawaii with us 👋 Fuck no. This shit would be a 3rd world country without the Union. Absolutely. We have our problems like all the other states but California is a great place to live. The weather in Illinois and annoying local Chicago politics gets on my nerves. But yes until I get old enough to retire Yes! I live in Oregon. Id also be down for a Pacific Statestype deal with Washington California and Hawaii. Oregon so yes Hellllllll no. Missouri would be insufferable as a country Yes my state is currently one of the best states to live in. Before Trump was even elected they hired a ton of lawyers to prepare to sue the government in any way that might be necessary. I even live in a conservative small town but I still feel pretty safe and there are resources that are super helpful. I am originally from California and there is a lot I like about California but I much prefer Washington. Absolutely. I feel like I mentally conceptualize California as its own entity in my head already. Idaho. Nope. As a Californian hell yeah! I’m in Colorado. No plans of leaving. I don’t want to live in my home state now as a state. No way the only thing protecting lots of the residents here is that we’re part of a larger community than the state itself. Oklahoma is in the dark ages even if our NBA team is in the finals. Yes Yes MA We would have one of the highest HDI’s in the world and a thriving economy that draws intellectual talent from all around the world. Massachusetts. Yes. Yes. Apparently we have a GDP bigger than most countries? So I think wed be okay and we already have most of the infrastructure. Speaking of GDP I think that shouldnt be the only metric to brag about. Quality of life needs to be up there too and this state shows extreme income inequality and housing unaffordability that drives many to leave or be below the poverty level. I live in Maryland so yes. Ohio? Nah lol Absolutely not. This would be one of the most oppressive regimes in the world. I live in Tennessee. Probably not. Im not overly attached to it as is it just happens to be where all my people and my stuff are. I would. I’m in Colorado and I love it here. I’d definitely live here I’m in Northern California. Yes California. Probably. I have been in my house for almost 30 years and have no desire to move. I’m a New Yorker. So probably yea. There are some small issues with various politicians but as a state we’re pretty great. Plus it’s New York we’re already a huge center of commerce and culture. I think we’d be able to survive decently well. Vermont has entered the chat Not willingly lol. Yes I don’t *want* Minnesota to leave the union but I can’t imagine a scenario where it actually came to that and I wouldn’t be on the side of the state. Like the other 49 states would have to be in pretty bad shape for that to happen so I’m staying. If the situation is dire enough then maybe Canada will adopt us Absolutely. Absolutely not Ohio. Absolutely. I saw a listing of the ranking if each state left the union how bad would it be. Utah no change. My state MA I think it was 5. Some thing will go up but over all not so bad Texas comes in at 25. there will be a lot of belt tightening Mississippi third world country over night I dont think wed be doing great economically but otherwise not bad. Id probably stay if I could still make a living. I think realistically wed need to join at least one of our neighbors CA or WA ideally both to make it work. Marylander here. Yes absolutely especially after the last election. This immediately crossed my mind when Trump said this week that he was preparing to eliminate every bit of federal funding going to California. If he follows through why shouldn’t California secede? California is like one of the top economies in the world if it was its own sovereign entity. No qualms here I live in Virginia near Richmond. I think we benefit greatly from being so close to DC and having a harbor that does not freeze in the winter. I dont think the state could survive without the Federal Reserve the Army bases and the Atlantic fleet. Probably? There’s just enough of a mix politically to keep it from becoming a total Republican shitshow despite their best efforts Without some federal oversight god knows what the alcohol laws would be though Absolutely 😬 Hard pass Yes. I’d stay. And not have to subsidize red states? Oh hell yes!!! No not really. The city cant support the rest of the state if we had to become a nation. Maybe if we had all of New England New Jersey and Pennsylvania with us as a regional pact. No the economy would collapse instantly. If anyone tried it I would in true Minnesotan fashion be one of the first volunteers to help restore order Post 22 What are class group chats like in US Schools? Do they have this in America or is it not prevalent? From the country I come from every class has their own group chat per year of study like class of ‘21 cohort ‘08 etc.. Do they have it in The United States’ schools as well? If so what are they like? Do you guys set your own rules or is it just free chat and free posting etc. Are these group chats only for students or are there cases like mine where there is a group chat with the teacher and a separate secret group chat without the teacher? Do they post announcements or polls in the chat too? Why in the name of god would I be in a group chat with everyone who graduated high school the same year I did My graduating class was 550ish students – and it was the smallest class in a decade. I was only friends with maybe 2030 of them. Being in a group chat with all 550 would be absurd especially 20 years later. ETA Since I think there is some confusion on what youre asking... we do not get divided up at all in school. I will have English in first period Math in second Science in third and my friend will have Science in first Math in second with me and English in third. Every period is a different group of kids and often will have students from different grades as well. Its not unheard of to have 6 classes in a day and not have a single person you share multiple classes with. We all have different schedules with different classes electives and are in different parts of the building from one hour to the next. I dont think anyone is answering you directly but No. We do not have class group chats. I’ve never heard of this being a thing here. Also my high school graduating class had like 400+ people in it which is way too many for a single group chat lol Its not uncommon for someone to setup a GroupMe chat for a college course. It was very common in my smaller arts &amp sciences classes. Wed use it to share notes ask about an assignment or let each other know about other events on campus that people might be interested in. Theyre deleted once the class is over and using them socially is kinda weird. So we do not have cohorts. Class of 2025 is just everyone who is graduating this year. There is not a break up of smaller sections. Having a group chat would not be a school sanctioned thing and it would be organized and run by the children. Does the school system in your country have students moving from classroom to classroom between classes or do the teachers move? In the USA students have a different class in a different classroom every hour or less starting as early as 4th grade/10 years old. There would either be separate group chats for each class which may very well be the case but would not include the teacher under any circumstances this would be highly inappropriate on the teacher’s part OR there would be one large group chat with the entire class and that could realistically be anywhere between 300 and 1500 students. Most school districts in the USA have some form of automated emergency announcement system normally it’s automated text messages that will get important information usually weather related out to the people who need it. I have never heard of that. That’s definitely NOT a thing here. There were hundreds of people in my graduating class and I have no interest in any of them. A group chat sounds like a nightmare. are there cases like mine where there is a group chat with the teacher and a separate secret group chat without the teacher? It sounds like you’re asking about official” class group chats that the teacher uses to post announcements and stuff. Generally especially postCOVID many schools are now using online learning platforms like Canvas Google Classroom or Microsoft Teams to coordinate work. I believe Teams has a group chat built in but I don’t fully remember but the first two don’t. But as a general rule announcements are done via these platforms instead of a group chat. If the school does not use online learning platforms like my high school did before COVID announcements are made via email. In university I have been in classes where the teacher has created a group chat separately usually through Slack so we could ask the teacher and each other questions. In high school for many classes the students would create their own group chat separately unofficial without the teacher on Snapchat. Most of this is from my university experience because COVID happened for me during my last year of high school. But from my understanding online learning platforms became a lot more common postCOVID my high school only started using them after and honestly I’m not sure if they continued using them after I left. Only time I did a class group chat was college and that was for one class. For everything else no especially not somthing as large as a graduating class. Group chats should be launched into the sun I think a lot of the respondents arent considering that most schools have apps for student collaboration parent information etc. and thats how classes etc can group chat. Theyre taking the questions as group chats using their phone number or social media accounts. Most schools have very large graduating classes. I could see this happening with a smaller school or private school but it wouldnt be feasible for regular schools. That would be more in Facebook group territory. I’ve seen some parent groups on Facebook for easier info sharing. It’s typically a class mom” a volunteer of sorts that runs it. I live in a small town though so it’s definitely a lot easier with 50 kids than 350. I don’t believe teachers are in the groups. As far as student groups I’ve never seen anything like that and I’ve not been out of HS for that long. My kids’ graduating class has like 600 kids in it. That sounds like a nightmare No. We do not have this. How do you do this? How big is your class? My high school graduating class had over 400 people in it and that’s a small size. The only places I know where this would even be feasible is an incredibly small town which would have a graduating class of 40 or 50. Even then why would you wanna be in a group chat with 50 people? Also this is high school so graduating at 18. If you’re talking about college then it’s even bigger. I couldn’t even count the number of people I graduated with when I was in undergrad. Maybe grad school could work. Like if I were looking only at my masters program and only at the people who were in my specific designation there were probably 10 or 15 people… Edit some people are talking about online learning platforms like Blackboard Google Classroom Canvas etc. These are not group chats. They are regulated places to post turn in and discuss assignments. They would never be run without a teacher you need a teacher designated account to create one and they do not use your phone number or personal accounts. Most of them would be very unwieldy on a phone and it’s easier to use them on a computer or Chromebook. If I had one of those Id kill myself. I dont want to talk to the people I graduated with. Graduated over a decade ago so after Social Media and group chats became a thing but not recently so my perspective might be a little skewed My friend group had a group chat that we used pretty frequently and the class as a whole had a facebook group but nobody used the chat. We could have used it but even with a relatively small class size I think everyone just saw it as too unwieldy with such a big group. People would post on the facebook group and it would be a mix of perfunctory things like class hoodie orders or announcements for various things academic based things like Ms. Xs 1030 class what were the numbers of the homework problems we had to do? and a bit of jokey/social things but not really as much. People were FB friends with their friends and your friend group probably had a group chat so it wasnt seen as a super important hub for people to hang around in or use the chat for. I dont think we had teachers in the group but I cant say for sure since I deactivated my FB account a while back. Class groups chats are not a thing here. So no. We had one in high school class of 2021. If was pretty quiet until it devolved into horribly nasty political debate every week or so Glad I left Generally no. American schools can have anywhere from hundreds to around 1000 students per grade level. Its not practical to have that many people in a group chat. You might have group chats for certain extra curriculars or anyone taking a specific class but unless the school is *really* small not a whole grade level. Classroom teacher here... If you are talking about school or teacher sanctioned chat spaces specifically for the kids no. Teachers have other platforms to disseminate info to the kids and it is not generally designed for the kids to participate. Its just to get info out. Ive seen many cases where coaches set up group chats for their teams to disseminate info and I imagine that the kids participate in those but I cant say that for sure. I can tell you that unofficial nonschool sanctioned platforms like text messages are generally frowned upon. Student initiated group chats with no school involvement? At the high school level they do exist but class size will be a factor. Ive worked in schools where the entire senior class would be around 60 and they were common then easy to handle not to intrusive. At my current school last years senior class was around 160 I think? There was definitely a group chat I heard about students using it all the time but I cant say that every student in the class was in it. My own sons graduating class was 1000+. They did not have a class group chat but they did have group chats for subgroups like specific classes organizations etc. I would hate that. That sounds absolutely horrible. We dont have that here. Where do you come from? And a group chat at my highschool like that would be 150 kids. It wouldnt work out. Sometimes someone will create a fb group or something to coordinate reunions for their class but in the age of social media its a bit redundant for just keeping up with folks. Graduating high school classes are typically 100150 people sometimes less and sometimes way more. Those you care to keep tabs on are probably in your social media network already. My grade high school class of ‘17 had a groupchat when we were in 11th and 12th grade but it was started by a classmates and there were no teachers/adults involved. My grade was really small so there were no rules and it was mostly just sharing class/homework memes student events or making sure people didn’t have the same outfits for proms. I’m pretty sure the whole reason it started was to double check outfits for junior prom It was usually pretty chill and boring but a couple times there was fighting one being a huge fight that somewhat split us into two sides because some felt one of our teachers was too liberal” he said we should help the poor and disenfranchised and to not look down on others ._. and they wanted him fired God no! When I was in high school0812 around a third of the student body didn’t have access to the internet. Just my class alone had over 700 kids in it so that would have been a lot of people in a group chat. When we graduated I had never even see or heard of the people I was sat around or the kids that made up our class student government. Also our school didn’t allow cell phone usage and would confiscate them if they were out during school hours. So having a group chat wouldn’t have been an effect form of communication. Any announcements were said before first period during breakfast. However most of us never heard these announcements because you didn’t even need to be at the school until first period began. As far as I know they do not. But if it’s secret I guess I wouldn’t. Closest thing we have is a big group chat for the *parents* of the kids in mine’s grade. It’s a nice way to discuss issues and talk about upcoming events. It is totally separate from the school and not on any school based platform. I know my daughter chats with her immediate friends but Im not aware of the whole class being in contact with each other. I know my wife a first grade teacher uses Class Dojo sometimes. when I went school the internet and chat and cell phones and social media werent invented yet. We had Facebook groups. Probably more common for smaller schools to have some sort of social media group not a group text though. Mine doesnt have one that I know of class of 04. Heck...we didnt even have a 20 year reunion that I know of last year. 5 year got hastily organized to be over Memorial Weekend I had to work all weekend and couldnt go. 10 while it was arranged in plenty of time it was over the American Thanksgiving weekend and I didnt go because I was headed out of state for the holiday and wouldnt be back until after. Even if Id been in state for the holiday again Idve been working. I did not have this and cannot think of any reason why it would exist. My grad school program was cohosted for the coursework portion so everyone who started in the same year was in courses together for a few semesters before they turned us loose to do our actual research. We had a group chat but there were fewer than 10 of us so it was manageable. It was pretty active as we were all proposing researching and defending but it died down since we all completed our degrees. I think I’d throw my phone in the nearest body of deep water if the ~200 people in my high school class could text me whenever they wanted. Yes but it got toxic and abandoned by our junior year I could not imagine either of my kids would ever have wanted to be in a group chat with several hundred kids they didnt know and dozens of teachers Lol why tho that sounds miserable What country I had one in high school for a single class of like 10 people so we could rotate who did that days homework and wed just copy off of it. In college we had one for the cohort so we could determine who needs to study what and who wants to join. We also used it to get a teacher fired rightfully so she was horrible at her job and we suspected she wanted to be fired vs quit. Havent touched either since once the need to talk was over. Officially no. But when I was in college it we had a big unofficial group chat for our major. I was in a small major tough so there were only a few dozen little in the chat. In high school we would often have unofficial group chats for a specific class like a European history group chat for that year but since its unofficial it would maybe have like a third of the enrollment for the year. I imagine the contents are pretty similar to yours though just people asking for help on homework and stuff. Its been a while since I was in school though so idk what the youths get up to now. my school actually did have one! it was a pretty small school only about 80 people in my graduating class so we would share our notes or study guides or reminders for exams or whatever else we needed in there. We have Facebook groups for that. Mine is dead. I graduated 20 years ago. I may have spoken to up to 3 people from my class a handful of times since then. I actively avoid group chats. I’ve never heard of anything like this and I had a super small graduating class of around 10. Most graduating classes are over 100 people. Facebook groups aren’t unheard of but a traditional group chat is highly unlikely to be a thing. I’m sure it exists but it’s not normal at all. My graduating class only had like 60 students and even that is too many people for a group chat. Nope. I don’t even talk to half the kids who go to my college that graduated with me from high school. Yeah I’m in a group chat with my grad school cohort and another one that recently started for my high school graduating class this year is our 20th reunion. In both cases the groups were started by students and are very informal. I don’t know how common these things are but obviously they do happen! So you mean Whatsapp right? Americans dont really use Whatsapp. I have family and friends in Europe and Whatsapp group chats sound really exhausting. In high school we have group chats for the classes we’re in English 3rd period with Mr Teacher not the whole graduating class. We dont have a class gc as in the whole graduating class buts its not uncommon to have the kids in a subject/classroom make one themselves if its a harder class like AP Calculus or AP Chemistry It never really goes anywhere besides just asking for test dates and sharing homework answers Ive heard of FB groups but definitely not group chats. Then again I graduated in a time when Discord wasnt a thing so... I’m not in a graduated class but there is a class group chat right now me and my best friend are excluded from it and I’ve heard they talk crap about us… There was never any at my schools. We had them during school to coordinate senior skip day or to share worksheet answers for animal farm I graduated way before group chats existed but my HS just graduated a class of like 650 mine was over 800 so… no that wasn’t a thing in my area. Maybe in a small town. No but my kids’ class has around 700 students. The parents do have FB groups for the different classes. Having your teacher added on social media before you graduate is illegal in some US states. I’m confused—are you talking about group chats for when you’re still in school or do you stay in the group chats after you graduate and keep using them? Either way I can’t imagine that happening. Most people in my high school class straight up hated at least a few classmates and wouldn’t want to be in a group chat with them. too big. My graduating class in High School was 800 kids. My graduating class in middle school was around 100 kids though. We did have a group chat for that. Im the parent of a current high schoolers The school manages a group remind for all kids and parents but that is only them sending out info. Theres no way we can respond. My graduating class was 400 students. We have an alumni Facebook page and thats it. Thats more than enough for me to know Id kill myself if I were in a group chat with them. Thank you for the responses everyone. I am aware some of you are disgusted by this question to that I apologize I didn’t know it wasn’t prevalent in US High schools. My high school year had 80 people and yes we have a group chats even if I only know like 10 or 20 of people as friends. There were about 1000 people in my graduating class. I didn’t even know anyone who sat in my row at graduation. We also didn’t have that kind of tech when I was in high school. I got to know many of the people in my classes but they changed from year to year and even semester to semester. A lot of people here do not have any interest in keeping touch with anyone from high school outside of a few very close friends. The ones that take an excessive amount of interest in their high school days or classmates are often thought of as being quite immature not having accomplished much and cringeworthy. It’s also worth noting that class sizes in the US vary wildly from area to area and school to school. Rural areas and private schools may have a dozen or two people in a class while large schools in a city or suburb may have 7001000 students. I had an unofficial one on GroupMe in high school. It was started by some students definitely didn’t have teachers in it and didn’t have all the students. Now it’s really only used to talk about reunions or to let people know if someone has died. I am *so glad* I dont have to interact with former high school classmates in chat. It was bad enough having to interact with them in person. we just had imessage group chats with as many people as possible. i also went to a small school and my graduating year was only 75 people so could definitely be different for others. there was never a groupchat with all 75 or ones with teacher or not that im aware of i was apart of a few class specific group chats for example 3rd period math might have a groupchat for whatever reason My class was almost 800 people 😂 No people sometimes make Facebook groups but most people dont join them Why on earth would I be in a group chat with people from high school and college? I didn’t like them when I was *in* high school! What the fuck would we talk about? How much of a bitch they think I am? About how many of them I think are losers? Some of my kids classes have group chats but most do not. You have to keep in mind that in most US schools after the age of 10 or so students move from classroom to classroom for different subjects about once per hour and the students in each class changes. Its very common to have completely different classmates every hour with very few who you are in the same classroom with for more than that hour. Classes are also usually not strictly divided by school year or age. For example I was very good at math so as a a first year high school student I was in math classes with third and fourth year high school students. We also have lots of electives that students can choose from to suit their interests. I took marching/orchestra jazz band and choir every year for example and for those 3 hours I was in class with kids from all the grades at that school who also chose to take those classes. Other kids took thinking like painting photography wood shop weightlifting poetry psychology etc. That was sort of a thing in college we had a facebook group but not high school Its more common in universities. Professors may set up one for the class to join if they want in case they have any troubleshooting or course content questions and to send out announcements and reminders. Students set up group chats for mainly helping each other understand the class and to exchange homework help of not prohibited. Some schools/classes. Mine has a few one from 6th grade first year of middle school we were all like 11 where it was just stupid stuff in a google chat. We have a gradewide Snapchat group chat but Im not on Snap so idk whats sent. No teacher would be in one since its on social media. Our school has a few Insta accounts Senior accounts sports accounts Senior assassins accounts etc. which teachers do look at but theyre studentrun. Every school is different. Mine is small we have less than 100 people per grade and not all of them are even on Snap. If someone goes to a bigger school they are less likely to have a gradewide group chat. Also they arent used that much. People arent all having conversations. They do that in chats with their friends. These are used for schoolspecific things like planning senior pranks and stuff For specific classes some have group chats. These are more for hw answers and stuff. Sometimes a teacher wants someone to text the class something like if theres gonna be a test and lots of students arent there when its announced but not often. What size of class would typically be in these chats? Because for very small groups like a class period or a grad school cohort may have chats like these but those are typically groups of 50100 at maxoften smaller. A graduating class at many high schools is in the hundredsmine were 400 and 900 at the 2 high schools I attended. A university graduating class is easily in the thousands. For the class group chats they’re typically either facilitated on GroupMe by the students or on platforms like slack and discord by the instructor. Nah not really a thing here to my knowledge. There were like 700 people in my graduating class. Haven’t seen or talked to a single person from high school since I graduated in 2007. One person randomly found me on social media this year friend request denied. I did creep on their profile for a minute though. I immediately moved to the other side of the country after HS. Most of them still live in the same small town My kids are in elementary school and dont have anything like that. Maybe its a thing for older kids here? Not really sure. I have a class group chat but it wasn’t started til after I graduated as there wasn’t universal smartphone adoption yet. While we were in school we had blast from the past! a Google group. I went to a small religious private school which probably made a difference. No teachers were or are involved at all. I do but my graduating class was 22 people lmao I had those when I was in school but nobody ever used them. It was all informal and got overrun by spam and losers desperately trying to get laid so nobody used it Post 23 about concerts in united states? This will be my first concert in the United States Barclays Center money isn’t an issue but I want to make the smartest choice in terms of ticket type. I’m a short guy so I’m hesitant about getting a pit or ga ticket. In your opinion what’s the best section to enjoy a concert especially in terms of visibility? I’d also really appreciate any tips you have for firsttime concertgoers in the united states. The answer very much depends on venue. if you don’t want to be in pit and you’re in the shorter side. I’d go seats so nothing in center but pick seats where you feel comfortable. You have a whole lot of variables there. What kind of band is it? What kind of venue? What city is it in? What time of day is it? All of these things can change the answer. I have seen 311 outdoors in a general admission standing venue and everything was perfect. I have seen U2 from the second row in a football stadium and from the nosebleed seats in a different football stadium. I watched Goldfinger play in a club with 300 people and Audioslave with 6000. I remember seeing Bush playing a warehouse in Dallas where the mosh pit started in seconds. My point is that every venue and every artist plays into your experience. I’m 5’7” and never really had a problem I couldn’t fix. I will say the rowdier shows have tended to have nicer people. The drunks in front of me at the really expensive U2 concert in KC were more unpleasant than the people in the pit at the Toadies in Dallas. Visibility depends on the venue but concerts have changed so much that pit/GA tickets arent fun anymore half the time people are pushing you around and are rude as fuck. Id recommend a seat ticket somewhere you can sit down or stand up and enjoy the concert without having to fight for your spot. For stadium seating I always enjoyed the first couple rows of the first level balcony. If it’s a halfstadium setup anywhere but the first or second closest sections of the stage because sometimes if you are too close you can’t see the whole stage properly. If it’s a full stadium setup avoid the sections in the back across from the stage unless you want to bring binoculars 🙁 I’m pretty tall and the only thing I liked about floor seating or pit was you could get close enough to the stage to catch a guitar pick or drumstick when thrown out by the artist. If you were actually there to enjoy the music and watch the performance in detail floor seating sucked. Give us more info. Where are you from? What concert/type of music is it? How big is the venue youre going to? if you do pit or ga just get there rly early cause when charli xcx was at barclays people were wrapped around the block hours before the concert even started good luck! Front row of the lowest balcony in the center As someone who is 53 I HATE GA or pit tickets. I hate having elbows in my face and looking at a row of butts instead of the concert. But I doubt thats regional. Seems like a universal experience to me. General admission works. Find your seat and enjoy the show! Take a pair of binoculars. Doesnt matter where you sit theyre useful. Do NOT try to record the whole concert with your phone. Take a few photos put your phone away and on SILENT and enjoy the experience. Concerts really depend on the venue and even come down to the vibe of the artist and even the local audience. Almost every Weird Al concert Ive been to people sit for most of the time. Its usually a very diverse range of ages from elderly people who have probably been following Weird Al for a long time midage people and then their young children. The Gen X and Milennial Nostalgia bands that are all doing rerelease greatest hit tours now you can expect people to stand for at least The Hits. And depending on the band its possible their entire set is The Hits. Some may try to sneak in a New Song or two and people tend to sit for those use the restroom etc... If its a current act with a lot of visibility and popularity honestly expect a lot of people to stand for every song even in the seats. There will be an encore that is meant to seem spontaneous but isnt. Some bands really play into it some will almost immediately come back on stage and some wont even stop. Ive had shows with no encores ranging from two encores. If the act youre seeing as a particularly popular frontman dont be surprised if they do a midset break and that frontman may do solo or acoustic songs or whatever You can look up setlists at Selist.fm. Its crowd sourced but pretty accurate. Due to how complicated it is to pull off a modern concert in a large venue most bands stick to setlists pretty closely. Oh almost forgot. Even if it wasnt advertised on your ticket there will likely be an opening act. Sometimes these acts tour with the band the whole way it might vary from region to region or they may even source the opener locally. It can be a good way to check out local or up and coming bands. I saw The Fray right before their big hit came out as an opener and even hung out with them after the show. Cool guys. In the Barkley Center for a concert you will want to be just off the floor and seated in the lower bowl which I believe is sections 131 for the best sight lines. I’m a shorter guy too. I have always avoided the floor like the plague. My preferred spot is opposite the stage about half way up the lower section so I’m looking slightly down or straight onto the stage between the hockey drops. Edit. If sound is your top priority close to the soundboard on the floor. Check the setting chart for location. Post 24 What do you think are the advantages and disadvantages of requiring school uniforms in your K12 education? School uniforms are required where I’m from so there’s always a debate on if this should be phased out. Americans have experience with both sides of this issue though I believe that schools that don’t require uniforms are higher in number than schools that do. In your experience what are the pros and cons of having school uniforms? Ive done it both ways. no uniform til high school and then had them for 4 years. The big pitch for uniforms was that everyone is the same so money or clothing status wouldnt matter. The hair the backpack the allowed accessories the phones etc... were all still there and so were the kids whose uniforms were always that bit more beat up because they were used or slightly off color because the official uniform store was expensive. Idk... Im not sure it really makes much difference. Having went to school in both uniforms and not I have some thoughts. 1. Requiring school uniforms puts an unjust hardship on lower income families or at best becomes unfair to families able to afford the uniforms as lower incomes may recieve their uniforms for free. 2. While supposedly used to ensure cohesion and less distractions in the classroom it also robs children of their individual expression. 3. It does nothing to prevent bullying or improve education. Just my thoughts. Pros are that people focus less on what people are wearing and everything attached to that. Cons you have to buy an extra set of clothes for school and life outside. I thought that uniforms would level the playing feild. It turns out that they just find something different to pick on kids about. And then the poor families struggle to pay for the uniforms. Just like they still struggle to pay for clothes for their kids. From what I have witnessed it doesnt level a playing field at all and it adds stress to families that are already financially stressed. I did uniforms in elementary then moved and had no uniforms. When I changed to no uniform it was a real struggle to choose what to wear. I didn’t know how to present myself and making that decision every day was suddenly very difficult. I’m against uniforms. Also the whole It unifies everyone so you can’t see who’s rich or poor” isn’t really that effective with backpacks and phones and accessories. Not to mention at least at my school we had to pay for uniforms and they were not cheap so I would have to wash and wear the uniforms very frequently which made them deteriorate faster than people who could afford more than 5 outfits. TLDR I think they are bad [deleted] The only area that I worked that required uniforms was poor. While their kids had clothes at home second hand or from charity they might only be able to afford one school uniform or find an old tattered one second hand from a neighbor or an older sibling. Kids came to school smelling bad because they could only hit the laundromat on the weekend for their one outfit. If they allowed normal kid clothes they’d have more clean clothes to rotate into during the week. They’d also outgrow their uniform during the year resulting in holes or visible belly when they raised their hand. People say school uniforms help reduce bullying because everyone is wearing the same clothes but doesn’t think of these types of differences. There’s also the issue of body types regardless of wealth. Chubby kids are always bullied but with a uniform that just doesn’t look good it’s worse. Usually you would buy clothes that complement their appearance. Having to tuck in a polo to khaki’s just makes a belly seem way more prominent even if the size is correct. Obviously in an ideal world bullying wouldn’t exist teachers would be psychic and stop bullying before it happened and the parents would be working with a doctor to make sure their child is shame free a healthy weight— but that isn’t reality and the kid suffers stress and self esteem issues because they can’t wear clothes that are more flattering to their appearance like other kids and adults do. The only advantage is the kid doesn’t need to worry about what to wear— but that’s also not really preparing them for adult hood or eventually the workforce when you need to already have some understanding of what clothes are acceptable for different situations. Pros a marginal reduction in bullying for a short period of time while students find other ways to differentiate themselves. Cons students are forced to wear uncomfortable clothing that allows for minimal self expression. Students with special circumstances are either ignored or get a free pass leading to more institutionalized inequality. Seriously I wouldve been sent to the office daily for wearing shorts during the winter instead of uniform pants and they could not have paid me enough to wear a tie. I had uniforms K4 and then moved to a school with no uniforms for the rest. Having no uniforms was 10000% better. The uniforms even used were crazy expensive and uncomfortable. There was actually less teasing about clothes in the school with no uniforms. They could always tell if the uniforms were used the brand of shoes was a concern....all of that. I personally think that having kids be comfortable in their clothes in terms of both sensory issues and confidence is way more important than them all looking the same. Advantages * Easier for parents of elementary kids to get their kids dressed in the morning * Easier to keep track of kids on field trips Disadvantages * Kids in the secondary grades will resent the rule being imposed on them * Families have to buy separate sets of clothes for school and after school * They reflect a specific idea of what clothes are appropriate that everybody in the school community may not share * The government shouldnt be telling people what to wear Things people say are advantages that dont hold up * Reduces bullying or class divisions kids will find plenty of other stuff to bully each other about * Trendy styles are a distraction from learning maybe to adults but not to kids for whom thats just normal clothing * Reduces conflicts over dress code they just turn into conflicts over whether the kid is wearing the uniform correctly I never had a uniform in school. In some ways it would have been nice to not worry about what to wear to school. As a teacher I don’t think parents are fully aware of clothing choices made at school. It’s pretty common for kids to come in sweat pants and sweatshirt take it off and have booty shorts and a sports bra underneath that they wear around. Boys will instantly sag pants below butt and take off shirt to wear wife beater. At conferences when I bring up clothing parents are completely unaware. I wouldn’t advocate for uniforms as public schools would probably have to provide them free of cost and that would most likely cut a few teachers to afford that. I wore uniforms in grade school had a very restricted dress code in high school and send my kids to a school without either. The upside of uniforms is over stated restrictive dress codes cause as many problems as they solve. No one talks about the kids who wear a size not readily stocked at the uniform store or how restricted dress codes are much more difficult for girls to navigate I live in a Deep South state. Schools here have required uniforms for about 2530 years now decades after I graduated. Supposedly they prevent bullying of poorer students and save money. IRL the students can buy their polo shirts and khaki pants or chinos from whichever stores they want so some get uniforms from Walmart and the like and some from higher end department stores. Its not always hard to tell the difference so that reasoning doesnt work. And it can often mean two sets of clothing. School uniforms and regular clothing. The students dont like it and parents still complain anyway. Im glad I went to school when we had more freedom to dress how we wished within limits. I had a friend in Australia that said she enjoyed having uniforms at school because it prevented kids from bullying her about her clothes. I asked her is she wasnt bullied at all and she said she was bullied for a lot of things but never about her clothes. Kids are assholes and will always find a reason to bully other kids. Uniforms dont prevent that and are barely even a roadblock in their ability to be assholes. I honestly dont see any upside to requiring kids to wear uniforms There are no pros. The research has been done and bullying is actually worse in schools with uniforms. Kids will bully. Its a given in this world and when they cant attack you for something like your clothes they attack you for something far worse your body for things that you cant change. Uniforms have zero effects on grades as well. They basically only teach kids to be subservient to authority allowing their rights like the right to self expression to be taken away because they are taught thats just how it is. Uniforms also cause a lot of problems for queer kids. People try to force trans boys into girls uniforms or trans girls onto boys uniforms and typically they dont have options for non binary kids. Self expression has also been studied and its been concluded that its extremely important for people. Without it theres even more of a push to try to make people robotic workers who dont question authority or try to force them into boxes they just dont fit into. In my opinion uniforms are mostly used to show kids that they arent allowed to have true freedom. Instituted by controlling authority figures. School uniforms are more for private schools in my area. Keep them out of public schools is my opinion. School uniforms are expensive and normally only in private schools where the family can afford them. Some public schools have a polo shirt and no jeans rule which makes it a bit more affordable. Id say the majority of public school families could not afford uniforms. I had uniforms in my public schools growing up. I appreciated that it was kind of an equalizer. I did what I could within the regulations to make mine unique and more fitting with my everyday style. But for those of my peers who maybe couldnt afford the nicest everyday clothes no one cared because we all had to wear the same stuff. Everyone looked appropriate because it was hard not to. And it made weekends where I could wear my own clothes even more special and exciting. But I do recall wishing I could express myself more in school. At least we had themed dressdown days during spirit week! I dont think there are advantages kids are going to know whos poor and rich even with uniforms. The uniform is just another thing folks will have to spend money on. And kids are going to bully each other no matter what. What you do this summer? Nothing road trip or International vacation. Have you ever fill in the blank example concert/summer camp? Oh look what I got for my birthday! The only good reason I have heard is it makes getting ready in the morning easier. Every single other reason I have heard for uniforms is bs. I say this as someoneone who has gone to private school and had to wear uniforms and public school where there were no uniforms. I think that requiring parents to buy extra sets of clothes for their kid to attend school is unfair to lower income families. Though I suppose if uniforms were the norm there would probably be some secondhand ones available. Im not really sure what the pros would be. I don’t mind when they’re generic like navy bottom and white shirt. I really don’t like uniforms where boys get to wear clothes they can play in while girls have to wear skirts and blouses. I grew up in American public schools that when I entered highschool didnt implement a uniform but instead a strict dress code. If you care solid colors only. No designs or big logos. Chinos work pants or slacks. No jeans. Collared shirts required. No hoodies. Things were were still allowed to do a jacket wasnt required. Sneakers were allowed. Elementary schools could still wear jeans. The rule that made the most sense to me now is no hoodies for safety professionalism and for making it harder to hide headphones. The rule that made the least sense was professional designs in fabric like subtle checks or thin stripes. Broadly speaking pros its professional looks better sets a standard for the student in the professional work environment theoretically safer and theoretically much simpler for the students as far as shopping goes. Cons obvious gripes from the students the requirements of actually making the rules and what does and doesnt get allowed students have to deal with store and pay for two wardrobes. Pros no one is making fun of kids because they’re not wearing the latest styles fashion trends it can create a sense of unity and common background dress codes can be more easily enforced due to uniformity you can still individualize your uniform by adding certain accessories. Cons uniforms can be expensive they’re often seen as sexist because of the modest length of skirts for girls/not allowing girls to wear pants instead of skirts they can be uncomfortable due to the material they’re made of often wool they can require special care like dry cleaning. I wouldn’t mind uniforms. I kind of wish my school had them. There was talk about instituting them when I was a Freshman. It never happened though. We just dont do that in public government funded schools. There is no real advantage and it kind of goes against free expression..... Also relatively few jobs and zero colleges require them.... To be honest I don’t think it’s a big deal one way or another. The thing with relying a specific uniform for public schools is that either you have to help provide them for each student or expect impoverished families to find the money to purchase them. Outside of that I see them as a mild inconvenience but in no way a big deal. I guess the only pro is that you could argue that they may help teach professionalism and help students understand the concept of professional attire. Advantages are that kids all wear the same thing so no one can be targeted for their clothing though state of cleanliness is also a thing and let’s be real kids will find any excuse to be shitty to each other. Disadvantages are that it limits expression the costs of purchasing clothes just for school can be high and the cost of enforcing the rules isn’t particularly worth it. There are public schools in Hawaii with school uniforms. Usually a T shirt and bottoms of a certain color. It’s for cost reasons and mostly elementary. But it seems to be dying. Private Catholic school for me and to this day I miss the ease of having a uniform. I found uniforms just simplified my life. I didn’t need to waste any mental energy deciding what to wear. I kind of miss that. I wore a uniform till high school and I think I spent more time worrying about my appearance and how to stand out when I wore the uniform then when I could wear what I wanted I had it both way but in privatenot public schools. The one advantage is that is can hide differences between income groups but other than that none really. In my high school there because the majority of the students had similar backgrounds and income levels it didnt make a difference not sure if that would hold in a public school with huge income gaps. My experience is that uniforms was more costly than non uniform because you couldnt play in them so you came home and took off the uniform needing two sets of clothes. Also one humorous thing is at the end of the school year before summer break our uniforms were looking pretty bad. Due still growing they were tight fitting and of course the Parents dont want to buy clothes in April/May that the kid might not be able to fit in Aug. I was pretty indifferent when my school switched over to uniforms. We had bomb threats and thats what pushed the issue. Now that Im a parent it makes getting ready in the morning much easier. My kids have plenty of choices for variety while staying in uniform and their school has lots of opportunities for free dress. The cost of uniforms doesnt seem any higher than regular clothes either. I think it works out. I had uniforms for 4 years in high school and my kids had uniforms at their kindergarten until we moved. It makes getting ready in the morning much easier definitely something I and my high school classmates appreciated. Once I graduated and was getting organized for the dorms I realized I only had church clothes soccer practice clothes and only a few good casual clothes not much appropriate for class. It just wasn’t on my radar during high school and we had to buy clothes for college. I can see how school uniforms can be a financial burden for families my kids and my uniforms weren’t cheap. None. As a teacher I’d love it. Between booze tshirts butt cheeks and admin that won’t enforce rules I’m sick of it. When I was in school only parochial schools had uniforms. Also in ATL every neighborhood had its own schools so the population of each school never got very large and was not very diverse as far as perceived income levels. I remember there being some trends in fashion but most kids wore jeans and tshirts no shorts allowed back then and we hardly noticed much of what others were wearing. We had more creative artistic musical performing types and so it was more about having your own weird style than emulating any magazine or even knowing designer brands. We may have been outliers but these were ordinary public schools so maybe it was the times which was the 70s. I live in New Orleans which is one of the few major cities that has universal uniforms for elementary aged kids. Most parents and even kids are for it. The pros are not focusing on clothes promotes focus on studies and other self expression it’s safer for the kids and it promotes unity and school culture. The cons are that while it can be a money saver the school can use it as a for profit program. We have big issues here where schools will partner with a store and parents can ONLY buy from that store which then jacks the prices up and places a huge financial and time burden on parents. It’s more of a money equalizer if it costs 500 to dress a kid and you were going to spend 1000 great. But if you were only going to spend 100 it really sucks for those families. The pro no one else is saying is that all the little kids running around in uniforms is cute as fucking hell. Did both but grew up poor. I had to rewear heavy blouses that didn’t breathe well because I didn’t have a washer in my house. My armpits of my shirts would get stained and the fabric itself was a sensory nightmare. They didn’t breathe well. Also many uniforms were gendered which also sucked. Always getting yelled at for my knee highs falling down. Overall uniforms can be uncomfortable which is a distraction from students learning. My public school system implemented uniforms when I was in 2nd grade. It was always a polo shirt and khaki pants or skirt for the ladies. We also had a dress code on how to wear are uniform. Shirts had to be tucked in everyone had to wear a belt only solid color white or black shoes. No logos unless it was the school logo. The pros were supposed to be reduced bullying especially over clothes. Cons were not learning how to dress everyday because that was done for you. The benefits depend on how cooperative the parents are and how strictly it’s enforced. My elementary school strictly enforced it all. So if I kid walked in at 7am with in untucked shirt they were already calling attention to themselves. That could be good or bad depending on what they need. There was a trend kids with repeated uniform issues also had more behavioral issues. Tucking your shirt is was the only aspect the student had control over. So if the kid had the wrong shoes no belt etc the parents had to get involved. I think this is really what they wanted. They wanted the parents involved with their students sooner rather than a few weeks into the school year. However that doesn’t make parents more involved it just annoys the less involved parents. If the parents don’t back up the school it’s pointless. The kids with behavioral problems just get written off teachers get tired of writing kids up for no reason and the kids who used to follow the rules realize you can break them without consequence. Overall most of the kids were well behaved in elementary school. That had more to do with the nature of children than the uniforms though. In middle school we just needed to have the right clothes on. The shoes belt and tucked in shirt didn’t matter. It didn’t matter kids were still bullied for being poor. Their shirts were tattered or ill fitting shoes falling apart hair cuts and styles weren’t as fresh the uniforms didn’t change the bullying. And in middle school there’s more opportunities for bullying. Some clothes aren’t going to stop kids from being cruel. High school was exactly the same. Con Uniforms take away one form of a child’s ability to express themselves and runs the risk of pushing them into conformity in other areas. Pro Sometimes kids express themselves like jackasses because they’re kids. For my own schooling I’ve only done no uniform and found I was bullied for what I wore BUT my son goes to school now and he has to wear a uniform at his public school and they have less bullying when it comes to clothes but he’s just in prek so I can’t speak for the whole school. It does get spendy and you have to be careful of where you’re shopping from because the tops will fall apart so you are out more money. But not having to pick out a new outfit everyday for your toddler is nice lol even nicer if you have an autistic child like I do who demands to wear the same thing everyday My kids had uniforms in Southern California and when we moved north they didn’t. The uniform pieces were pretty cheap and we even ordered them from French Toast although all the Walmarts and targets sold uniform pieces too khaki or navy bottoms white or navy tops. To this day even though they’re adults now they say how they preferred uniforms because it made choosing what to wear so much easier. Here’s one my daughters had and it’s only $21 not on sale and $17 on sale. https//www.frenchtoast.com/vneckpleatedjumpergirls46x7/p/1046 Cost of schooling... is insanely expensive. The major disadvantages for me would be the added cost. Lunch bills alone are crazy. Extracurricular costs field trips fundraising supplies... Plus uniforms which arent generally the cheapest and kids constantly growing means more trips to the uniform stores. Im overall not against uniforms. It makes it easy to plan outfits wash for the week is straightforward it somewhat prevents disparity between clothes/brands/dresscode issues. Apart from accessories etc Morning school routine is streamlined a bit... Even fieldtrips and things its easy to spot your kids in the crowds. Id say it has pluses and minuses equal to the not uniform argument as well. In my opinion. I never went to private school so I have no experience with uniforms but if given the choice I wouldnt have chose to wear a uniform. I wore notquiteuniforms but prettymuchuniforms khaki or navy pants and polo shirts from 6th through 12th grade. Only at the end of college did I feel like I began to learn how to style myself what clothes were or werent flattering on me and what I actually ENJOYED wearing. Because I was stuck in exclusively khaki pants and polo shirts for 7 years I didnt get to develop a sense of fashion or style or self. Uniforms are fabulous for any field trips or other offcampus events. Depending on the uniform they can encourage different kinds of physicality. Not having uniforms allows for more free expression. It’s much easier in one way you don’t need to buy special clothes for school or different clothes if you change schools. Our population is large and mobile and kids change schools midyear more than is ideal. Not having uniforms also allows for more stupid and often sexist decisions on what is and is not school appropriate. Honestly in my opinion it’s a wash. I loved wearing a uniform. Nothing to decide in the morning. No cliques based on who could afford what. I still like uniforms but we call them a business suit. My high school didn’t have uniforms but it had a very strict dress code. Your pants could only be khaki or black and your shirt could only be black white blue or red. Small 1”x1” logos were allowed on shirts. Lots of restrictions on hair natural color only no weird haircuts no long hair for boys no short hair for girls no visible piercings/tattoos no hoodies no vneck shirts no open toe shoes. There were more restrictions but this is just off the top of my head. It was kind of the worst of both worlds IMO. This dress code allowed for crazy shoes and designer logos which ruins the point of making everyone appear equal. It also severely limited self expression which was super annoying as a student. I’ll not get into all of it but I think everybody wearing the same thing can and does contribute to problems with body image. Ive always heard the excuse of uniforms make it so students dont pick on each other for having cheap clothes but like Ive literally never seen that happen and its not just me not paying attention because I was that kid for a bit of time at school when my family wasnt doing so hot financially. It feels like an excuse to me to enforce conformity. Its been proven that kids who are required to be neat and tidy in their school clothes do better in school and have more self esteem. If parents respected dress codes and didnt allow their kids to dress like hookers or gangbangers for school uniforms wouldnt be a big thing. Also school equals fashion shows and that is not what school is for. Pro It supposedly reduces social competition in dress Con It actually doesnt. Also many uniforms are gendernormed which is silly. Its 103F and 70% humidity outside but I cant wear a skirt to stay cool because...Im a guy? If you want to impose a uniform cool but make it the same for everyone regardless of gender. I had a uniform growing up. My kids dont. My wifes district where she is an educator doesnt have a uniform per se but does have a dress code of a specific color polo by grade and khaki pants. I really see no major drawback or benefit one way or the other. Uniforms eliminate peer pressure of the latest fashion/brand but are also an additional expense for the poor as well as they will need to purchase additional clothing so they dont /get damaged too quickly. Advantage? Easy to control what kids wear for appropriateness sake Disadvantage? It’s not how the real world works I wore uniforms in public school for 9 years and it was absolutely awful. Its not more equitable like people think. Kids with money buy nice clothes from nice stores and kids without money get them second hand or from walmart. Worked in high schools for almost 20 years after graduating high school myself. While the schools I went to never required uniforms and rather relied on a dress code” I figure that the main advantages of having a uniform are no longer having to think about what to wear whether something is in style or not whether something is good looking or not whether something someone is wearing can be interpreted as hostile/offensive or not. You just need a closet with maybe a week’s worth of the same tops and bottoms no mental effort needed. By the same token school staff won’t need to argue with those students about whether something is allowed or not or whether something is too revealing or not. The disadvantages of course include the sense of losing the element of individual freedom of expression the sense of having to conform to authority—something not particularly associated with the young nor Americans at large. That’s why personally I would support a uniforms are available but not mandatory” dress code so that many students can opt to wear the uniform whenever they just don’t want to be bothered about looking stylish or unique but are free to show their individual style if they want to within limits of a dress code. an issue we ran into is that america is capitalist and when everyone is REQUIRED to buy the same product the price on that product goes up. And you dont get to choose a cheaper product. So uniforms are a hardship on poorer families. I do like that kids are required to dress appropriately in business casual for school. I cant tell you how appalled I am at some of the things kids think are appropriate to wear to school. My daughter had school uniforms for grades 18 private school I loved it no arguing in the morning heres your choices Pants dress skirt then white polo or blouse and sweater or no sweater There are zero advantages and every single thing is a disadvantage Advantages cuts down on classism and cliquishness. Disadvantages it goes against freedom of expression I grew up in the US no uniforms and now raising a daughter in Australia uniforms. Uniforms make the morning routine easy and it helps keep track of the kids during excursions/field trips. A lot of the kids find them boring and the girls frequently have only skirt/dress options. You can tell which kids are wearing secondhand uniforms and who is wearing really expensive shoes. I’m not sure if this is usual across Australia or just Melbourne but I was really surprised at how much the uniforms cost. Almost $90 for the cardigan and $77 for the coat. $58 for the summer dress. The cold weather dress is a $60 pinafore with a $36 shirt underneath. PE shirt is $48 $55 for long sleeve version and the shorts/skort/trousers are all over $30/each. Mandatory backpack is $64 and mandatory hat is $19. You need multiples of some clothing items and it’s a huge upfront burden for a lot of people. Especially with how fast kids grow in primary school. I wore a uniform for the one year I was in Catholic school. I did not wear one the rest of the time. Main issues that I had with the uniform * They were expensive. I had one longsleeved shirt one shortsleeved shirt one skirt one pair of pants one sweatshirt one tie and one gym uniform. Everything had to be washed every day or almost every day. * There were still popular kids and that was based largely on being rich and/or attractive and there were still trends in things like hairstyle and how you wore the uniform the other girls rolled their skirt waistbands to make the skirts higher but I was very short so me doing that just made it go from midcalf to kneehigh * It was also really easy to know who was rich not because of them having expensive phones or backpacks but because people would just openly talk in public about how their dads business was doing or how their vacation in the Bahamas was. * I was constantly losing my tie or forgetting to wear a belt with my pants and potentially getting in trouble for being out of uniform. Any idea that it eliminates dress code violations is a myth. Having done both school uniforms sucked did nothing what they were supposed to do and was a giant PitA while becoming a new kind of tax on us because we were poor. I see no disadvantages aside from hurting some kids oversensitive feelings. As a parent I love uniforms. They are often cheaper than buying a shitload of clothing and trying to keep the outfits organized. It really cuts down on laundry time and expensive. Its a hell of a lot easier to set out clothes for the week so getting ready in the morning is that much easier. Now if I were a kid I would have hated them. Im absolutely one of those people that didnt like fitting in. I personally like uniforms. Theres no thinking in the morning about what to wear. I also like that it makes people less likely to bully based on what someone is wearing. I do think a certain number of uniforms should be provided to ensure that kids from lower income families have good condition uniforms and dont stand out. This was a big debate in my hometown when I was still in school. They implemented uniforms for all schools in my district the year after I graduated from high school so I just barely missed it. The argument that they focused on most was reducing bullying due to disparities in clothing quality or perceived value i.e. designer brands versus common/generic brands. That was always a nonsense argument because bullying over clothing wasnt something that happened much if at all by the time I was in school. No one cared. The closest thing that I witnessed was a kid who once showed up wearing a brown buttondown shirt with matching brown pants and a few students lightly joked about him looking like a UPS delivery driver. The argument that they focused on secondarily was that the uniforms were cheaper than buying regular clothes which wasnt true at all. That would only be true for some families if kids also wore their school uniforms outside of school as regular clothing which no one did unless you were going somewhere right after school without going home first. But even granting that it wouldnt be cheaper for poor families who were more likely to rely on handmedowns and cheap stuff from thrift stores as uniforms forced them to buy particular clothes in a lowcompetition market. There were other arguments that were put forward as well. They said that uniforms would reduce the number of fights but they didnt offer any data or even a rationale for that it was just an assertion as if we were all just supposed to nod along with it. They also claimed that boys would be less distracted by the clothing that girls wear but that always sounded to me like more of an everyaccusationisaconfession moment. They also claimed that uniforms took some stress out of the day because you dont have to worry about what to wear for school in the morning and Im not aware of clothing selection in the morning being enough of a stressor for enough people for this to be a viable argument. I begged for a school uniform and have never heard any downsides. I was constantly harassed over the fucking dress code for the crime of being tall. Upsides Leaves me the fuck alone Nobody looks poor Dont have to deal with bullshit rapey teachers judging your titties Your mom doesnt have to come to school and cuss everybody out all the damn time Less decision fatigue Downsides Ive literally never heard one My school refused to implement uniforms even though it was requested by pretty much all parents and students. Never gave a reason always just acted like they forgot every year. I went to K12 before cell phones and they were private religious schools. Jewelry wearing was limited and conservative in scope single earrings that were not hoops in each ear for girls one watch and one necklace w/ or w/o a pendant allowed for all students. No rings allowed for students. And we had uniforms. So that left cars...who had one who didnt and who had nice ones. Parking for students was limited and there was a lottery every summer so you could have a space one year and not the next. But you could generally see who had car vs who didnt and even that got broken down even further...who had a new car of any type vs a used car.....and then even the kids who had new cars you could tell whose parents had some actual wealth vs kids who got a barebones economy car. Meanwhile in 199293 I was driving a car from 1975.....so I was definitely on the low end of that scale. I went to a public school that was transitioning into uniforms when I was in elementary/middle school. I think at that age it was nice because you didnt have to think about what to wear and no ones hand me downs were unfashionable. They were inexpensive and available at Walmart just navy blue bottoms and white shirts. Then I went to a private all girl high school where it was polar opposite. The uniforms were very expensive we had a specific plaid skirt and very unfashionable shirts. The girls were very daring with the skirt lengths and used their accessories to show their wealth. Some girls could afford to have their uniforms tailored and the rest of us looked a bit schlubby. I did have a very ingenious classmate who sowed her collar onto her sweatshirt and just wore that. No one had any idea there wasnt a stiff white shirt under it. The all boy school down the block didnt have a uniform but had a dress code and that both worked for them and an against them because even after they graduated they had this style. Everyone knew they had gone to that school because it was so obvious that they never learned to dress differently. Overall it was fine I didnt dislike the uniforms. But once I went to college I was able to form my own fashion identity and explore clothes in a different way. I think youre denied that a bit in a school where you can only dress how you like once or twice a quarter or on the weekends. Its not traumatic or anything but I probably took longer to find my own personal style than normal because of it. Dress code enforcement is a headache. People will buy any blue pants not the designated ones. So then you have kids wearing something kind of close and you know their family isnt rich so you let it slide because its probably hands me downs. But then other kids are wearing cargo pants or something and the styles color variations get to be a pain to monitor. Even at my high school where there was a sort of strict dress code students still wore things that were inappropriate for school. I’ve seen a couple guys with holes ripped in their jeans right under the butt no they weren’t poor it was for fashion and girls wear lingerie bras on top of their shirt I mean you put your shirt on then put a bra on after ON TOP. It’s distracting and inappropriate. Uniforms should be mandatory. They should also be free. Advantage is that there is no distinction between kids whose family struggle with money and kids with families that don’t. Where uniforms are not employed kids can tell by the labels and accessories who shops at WalMart and who shops at the mall. Kids are cruel and bullying is a real problem. I can’t think of a disadvantage so I will be checking back to see other parental commentary. Technically it would be cheaper especially for lower income families I went to School in PR and we wore uniforms was never a big deal still think they make more sense than to not have one I personally enjoyed uniforms. Easy to get ready in the morning. Disadvantage broadcasting where your child goes to school if theyre a walker or engage In after school activities outside the home. Easy kidnapping is why my school voted against full uniforms and only had gym uniforms and a dress code. The advantage is that they are a great equalizer of social classes as long as labels are not allowed to be displayed. There is no disadvantage imo. Personal expression” has never really cut it for me because American children and teens have long worn the exact same mass manufactured brands and pieces. I love that my kids wear uniforms. We don’t have to worry about what they are going to wear or have to give in to whatever the latest trend is to not hear them complain. The pros are students look neater. Also Ive heard it reduces the social class variation between kids. Rich and poor kids wear the same thing. Cons kids probably dont like it. Didn’t have uniforms in my HS really didn’t have a dress code at all just no sunglasses or any shirt that had guns drugs alcohol or sexual themes. It was so awesome. I loved being able to style up cool outfits and express myself but also loved being able to wear pajamas or sweats if it was a dreary day and i was feeling tired. I feel so bad for people who had to dress up or wear a corny uniform to school. Advantage are kids form relationships free of wealth and class bias. This is great for diverse communities. I prefer 912 to be no uniform cuz I think it’s a great period for kids to explore and express. Pro poor kids are dressed the same as rich kids. It equals out things to a point. Pro easier to school shop. I cant think of a con. Our public schools wear uniforms. Tan pants for all and each school wears a different color polo shirt. Sweaters and hoodies are also available. Low income get 3 free polo shirts. Each school also has a uniform clothing closet where families donate outgrown items or when they graduate. Uniforms are dumb. I think they are oppressive and outdated shit. Authoritarian society. Only brainwashed people agree with them. K 8 yes. Above that no. Post 25 Is it common to not have fences in the front yard or back yard? I always see in movies TV shows even on Google maps that you guys have no fences in front of houses or sometimes in the back too. And no one seems to talk about it. How do you deal with privacy or safety? Also I really like the way you guys have your front yards set up. Maybe because I grew up playing so much soccer in Eastern Europe With fences and without fences are both commonplace. The house I grew up in in a Kansas suburb had no fences at all. My parents sold that house and their new house also in a Kansas suburb has fences around the backyard but not the front yard. This is entirely based on specific areas of the country. I live in a very small town and almost no one has a fence front or back. The only exception is the few people with in ground pools a fence is required for safety and those who have a chain link fence to keep their dogs in. As far as privacy goes it’s a non issue. Our yards are huge compared to European yards so not really a concern. Almost never fences in the front unless its a very very fancy house that has a front gate. Fences in the backyard are maybe 50% common people with dogs like a fence and it can be good for containing kids but a lot of recent developments Ive seen dont have fences As for safety what would a fence do? Id argue if someone wants to enter your house hopping over a fence would be just as trivial as breaking a window. It just has never really been a big deal here As for privacy thats another reason very expensive houses have gates around the whole property and some people like backyard fences. But if I want privacy in my home I just shut the blinds Fences are optional. They’re mostly for keeping kids and dogs corralled and are mostly useless for privacy and safety. If you want a privacy fence you can make one but not everyone needs that. Very common yes. Contrary to popular belief the vast majority of America is very safe. As for privacy many yards are quite large and have a lot of trees or shrubs. Suburbs typical no fence in the front but backyard fenced in. Americans are taught from a young age not to be entitled and use the neighbors yards as communal space. Seriously that’s basically it. We view yards as private property” and are taught to stay off it unless invited. Growing up in the suburbs we never had fences in the front yard. Two out of three houses had fences in the backyard. Now we live on some acreage and dont have any fences. They irritate the deer bear moose and lions. Fences in front are rare. Fences in back are most common. This is going to vary greatly depending on the town/city/subdivision etc you live. Each is going to have their own codes as far as what is required and acceptable We don’t think about it. In my neighborhood growing up most people had backyard fences but no front yard fence. If you have a backyard fence it is because of dogs/kids you have. Those without a backyard fence just didn’t have those concerns. The reason for lack of front yard fence is kind of a community thing in my eyes. It’s more inviting. But I’m no sociologist In my area people who have fences either have a pool or dogs. Thats a regional question and so is whats the common fencing material is. Ive seen nice homes in the Midwest without fences and the homes are fairly close to each other. Ive lived in about 30 different houses throughout my life. They all had backyard fences. Only a couple had a front. Edit to add Ive lived ll over the country. Almost every region. Edited again I just counted and Im on 28. Ive lived in this house longer than anywhere. I bought it 4 years ago. More common in some areas than others but yeah the norm is that most people don’t have fences in the front yards. Most of our hanging out and socializing is done in the backyard which are generally much larger than the front yard and are normally fenced in. Front yards are primarily decorative. Trespassing isn’t really an issue because we have a culture of not going on to other people‘s property plus it’s illegal. On Long Island in New York its not common to have them in the front of the house but common in the back Privacy? Some neighborhoods are so out of the way that it is odd to have a strange car drive past. If your house is not on the way to a popular destination the only people passing by also live there. My parents had a fence put in the backyard because my mom did at home daycare plus it meant our dogs could freely be outside. Outside of that we never had a reason for a fence. Once we were old enough/mom didnt do daycare anymore our yards were open. Outside of that ive never had a fence my parents never had a fence my grandparents had a split rail however thats not at all for privacy or safety. Privacy was never really a thing. The neighbor kids would come over exactly the same as we would go over to their homes. Even now +20 years later I still talk to my neighbors watch their dog etc. We maintain our privacy in our homes outside ehh were all cool. Safety we all have guns and know each other. So I think were all pretty safe! I know that in some cultures and countries houses are always surrounded by fences or walls. In America that’s not very common. my backyard has no fence mostly bc we have big trees &amp I dont mind seeing a neighbor here and there. theres no need for extra privacy. Id only fence it in if we had a dog. Im pretty sure there are no fenced in front yards in my neighborhood. people landscape them so they look nice or put out decorations for holidays. itd be a shame if everyones pretty lawns were boarded up. It depends where. Rural east coast less likely. I grew up in rural PA no one fenced their yard. I live in suburbia Texas and everyone has a fence. Depends on where you live. Like literally the exact neighborhood In the places I have lived in the USA it is more common to have fences only in the backyard. At the last house I owned city code required a rock wall around the backyard. I added a wrought iron fence to the front yard. Fences are super expensive. Every house I’ve had that has fencing we bought it with fencing. Our current house we bought specifically for the fence for the dogs and it’s only in the back yard. Also a lot of houses I’ve lived in are out in the country. No one needs a fence when your neighbors are acres away. I’d say it often depends on the age of the house. Front yard fences were far more common 100+ years ago but you do still see them with very large stately homes. Most homes in my neighborhood all built around 1995 have a backyard fence but they aren’t more than four feet 122 cm tall. My yard is 15 acres. That would be a lot of fence. Fencing the backyard is extremely common in the cities rural areas not so much. Fencing the front is rare anywhere. Fences are EXPENSIVE as hell. I have a fence around my entire property 1/5 acre in a town because of my dog and children. I have enough outside the fence for the sidewalk and some flowers/shrubs so it’s not so aggressively keep out” but we spend more time playing in the front or side yard people watching than we ever do in the backyard. We had a fence in the front yard but it got old and rotten and we had to tear it down. It is a bit expensive to put up a new one so we havent. Most yards in the neighborhood have a fence of some kind. I have had tell kids to get off my lawn a little too often. I usually only start yelljng when theyre doing something dumb like playing catch with my lawn chairs or running through my flower garden or getting into my vegetables. The amount of ADULTS using my lawn as a public park for their dogs is atrocious. I should not be yelling at this many people. Im trying to come up with an affordable fence like some small bushes or something to line the way. Just something they definitely have to cross over to get into the yard. In the middle of Dallas old neighborhood. Backyard is fenced 8 feet fence nothing in the front. Our two neighbors are used for us run around naked in the backyard bot of them have an upper floor because of the pool Most of my neighbors have fences. Privacy? I dont do anything in my yard I need to be private about. Safety? Between my cameras security system big ass dog Great Pyrenees and my guns someone has to make a really bad life choice to want to come inside uninvited. I live in the US Midwest in a town of about 26000. Id estimate that less than 1% of houses here have fences around the yard. Yes its common and in some places required by local ordinance or an HOA. Currently my front and back yards are both fenced in. None of the houses in my Southern California suburb had front yard fences Dont know the stats but Id wager a large sum its much less common to have front yards fenced. Backyards would be more even but still probably fewer are fenced. Varies a lot by neighborhood but my guess is based on all the places Ive lived which is numerous and observation. The fence on my property is there to keep the dogs in and the deer out. And I suppose to make a wouldbe burglar stop and rethink his life. We have always had fences in at least the back yard if not full perimeter until we moved to our current house. We have no rear fence and I hate the lack of privacy so much. It’s common in my area to not have fenced front yards on average homes. Very wealthy people often have gated driveways and fences or hedges around their front yards. Most back yards here are fenced. Back yards are seen as private. Front yards are only semi private. For example the power and water companies can legally come on my property for maintenance purposes. If I built a fence there would need to be some way for them to access. A fenced front yard would feel less inviting to friends and family visiting. Growing up the backyard was fenced the front was not. In my house now only the side yard is fenced because we had a spa the rest of the property is not fenced entirely. Our neighbor has small children so his entire backyard is fenced but none of the other neighbors do In my neighborhood the only fences are invisible fences to keep dogs in the yard. In the neighborhood I lived in before moving here everyone had a fenced backyard but no privacy fences. We could build a fence here but with the trees the distance between houses and our relationship with the neighbors its not necessary. I live in the US eastern Washington. Rural area but near a bigger town. Most rural yards have no fence. My parents have never had one or wanted one. Most the yards around them are the same. Most people out here who do have fences typically have animals. Horses goats chickens or dogs. We always had dogs growing up also but its easy to train dogs to not leave the yard without permission. In the nearby town fences are more common especially in higher income areas for privacy or feeling of security. But lots of folks still have no fences even in town. Id say its easily more common to not have a fence around here than it is to have one. In Arizona unless you live in rural areas there are fences everywhere. Particularly sides and backs of homes. Our back yard is fenced with a chain link fence. It was there when we got the house. It offers no privacy and little security and I suspect was put in to keep pets and kids contained. Privacy fences are fairly common. We just don’t have one. Never felt the need our neighbors are pretty nice and I’m not worried about them. None of the houses by us have a fenced front yard. Where I grew up the only fence we had was to keep cows in the field. I dont have neighbors so no need for a backyard fence. I usually see fences in subdivisions where the houses are so close youd want privacy and to also know where your property lines are. I’ve always had a fenced in backyard. I’ve only ever seen open backyards in rural areas. And I’ve only ever seen fenced in front yards in very low income or very high income areas. Just depends. My house has a section of the yard fenced off a section not. I’ve lived in 3 states both coasts and middle America. Every home that had a back yard had a fence. None of the front yards did. Growing up continuing through my 69F current house its fencing around the back yard only. I dont know of anyone with a fenced front yard other than people who have livestock. Back yard fences are more common but still are mostly for keeping kids &amp pets in. We have guns for safety because typically the sheriff is a half hour or more away and the nearest state police post is an hour away. The last 2 petty thieves got shot. The more you eff around the more you find out. Neither of them liked being shot so one quit stealing and the other moved to Missouri. Where I live I know almost all of my neighbors for about 5 miles in any direction with the exception of one subdivision. My family has been here for over 250 years so to an extent many of us are still kin and the rest of us still talk. Very common in my neck of the woods. Properties are often a full acre in size nobody intrudes because they have plenty of space. Not in California. I find it super weird to hear all the people in the rest of the country talking about how they don’t share fences. Here we have a lot of suburbs and while there is a rural California a neighborhood is going to have fences backyards. And the fence is on the property line and each property owner is responsible for half of the upkeep and replacement costs. So when we need to replace a fence we have to talk to our neighbor and get consensus on style and price though usually a neighborhood will all have the same style. Where I live picture frame fences with six inch kick boards at the bottom are the norm. https//www.ricksfencing.com/fences/woodfencing/pictureframefencing/ In my mom’s neighborhood it’s cheaper dog eared fencing with alternating panels facing each other. https//callfantasticfence.com/whatdoesgoodneighborfencemean/ I have a backyard fence because I had two dogs when I moved here. They’ve been gone for years and last year a couple of storms took down two sections. Now I have a steady procession of deer hanging out in the backyard. I’d like to fix the fence but I would miss my deer. People that want outdoor privacy tend to move to a excluded area and buy several acres of land around them assuming they can afford it. Distance is privacy in the US. For Americans fences are more about keeping things in than keeping things out. So unless you got a pet or livestock youre probably not building a fence. Fences are typically put up in the back yard for insurance purposes. In most municipalities if your back yard is fenced you get a break on your homeowners insurance as its considered extra security. It obviously varies though. If you go out to the county or heavy rural areas you typically dont see fences. My house is in the middle of 2.5 acres 1 hectare of trees. My neighbors have similarly sized lots. I dont have a problem with privacy. I dont even have curtains on some of my windows in the living spaces. We like to see the trees and flowers so they would always be open anyway. Very common and to be honest a front yard fence is considered trashy in suburban NJ. Fences around back yards is common. In some many? town jurisdictions in my area SF Bay Area there are regulations that prohibit certain heights of fences from impeding the views of the neighbors. Front yard fences are extremely rare nationwide. Back yard fences are pretty evenly split. In some areas – such as where I live in Phoenix – a traditional chainlink or wooden privacy fence are very rare and instead everyone has stone walls. Front yard fences are very unusual. When you see one you think… There must’ve been a serious falling out between those two families. That said my house growing up had a 2 m tall shrubbery between our house in the next on one side… But the other side was totally open and I would sometimes mow their lawn. Crime is grossly exaggerated in the media in comparison to daily life. It mostly boils down to certain neighborhoods in cities and everywhere else is perfectly safe. Theres crimes of opportunity everywhere but its not on some grand scale. The worst thing that happens to most people is package theft and Ive never had it happen to me. Most front yards arent fenced across the country. Backyards are commonly fenced but not always. Fences are most useful for dogs IMO. In my area privacy fences are the norm for backyards and the side yard between the house and property line. Front yards are almost never fenced in. Very regional. Where I am nearly everyone has a fenced backyard but fenced front yards are pretty uncommon. Out here in the west everyone has back fences. When I visited relatives in the south I rarely saw fences in the back. Front fences are rare in my experience no matter where you are. Depends. Chain link front yard fences tend to be in city areas versus rural ones but you can find them in many landscapes. Where I’m from those are prohibited. Front yard fences are discouraged unless on a corner lot at a busy intersection and are lower than normal so as to not block views of oncoming traffic. They must be historically accurate so of periodappropriate material and design like wrought iron stacked or mortared stone walls or wooden pickets or panels. Many people in this part of the country have backyard fences though. For pets and kids to be safer to try and prevent deer from eating their gardens but also to have some more privacy in older homes sitting on narrower but deeper lots. Never had a front yard fence. The primary use of a backyard fence for me has always been for pets. They’re also good for kids if you have them. In a lot of rural areas we live far enough apart that fences are mostly there for livestock pets and property disputes. My yard is the only part of my property without some kind of fencing or the remnants thereof as everything from chickens to hounds to horses have required some kind of fencing over the century or so my family has lived here. My nearest neighbor is family and still almost a mile away though. Not much need for privacy fencing on property thats hard to get a look at from satellite imagery nevermind the adjoining property lol. In the Southwest where Ive lived fences are a lot more common. When we visit my wifes family in New England I notice how few fences there are. When we bought a house in semi rural AZ places without existing fences where ruled out. We have 4 acres fenced with seoerate fences dividing sections. Most suburban houses have no fence in front fence in back. I live in a rural area. Fences are pretty rare but I have a portion of my back yard fenced off to keep the dogs from wondering off. Ive never lived anywhere with a fenced front yard. My current house is the first without a fenced backyard. My neighbors have lowfenced backyards for their dogs. Critters use my unfenced yard as a route through the neighborhood. Funny enough Ive had a home with a enclosed walled off front yard but no fence or barrier in the backyard so neighbors could not just see eachother the second they were outside but can take 3 steps and be in their yard It depends on location. My house has a fenced in back yard as does my entire neighborhood. But most of the time the houses have a fenced in back with an open front or a very short fence for the front. However a lot of properties in the US doesnt have fences at all so yes that is correct. Privacy? You have to get that by building your own fence in those kinds of neighborhoods. Western USA fences are everywhere. The further you go east they are less common I always see in movies TV shows even on Google maps that you guys have no fences in front of houses or sometimes in the back too. And no one seems to talk about it. How do you deal with privacy or safety? Guns Never lived in a place with a fence. I dont worry about privacy or safety. If I want to go out in my back yard naked then Im going to do it. Places with fences always seem so uninviting. What are people so afraid of? Unless youre keeping a dog in the yard from running I see no reason for a fence. Backyard fences are to contain animals or small children. When I was growing up we had them in the house I lived in when I was small but none for the houses we moved to when I was school age or older. The farm my husband grew up on had a fence on the side next to the highway for safety reasons small children had died on that road. We fenced in the backyard of our first house when I became pregnant. Our current house has a fenced in backyard and there used to be a front yard fence as well but thats probably because it used to be a daycare center. Fencing doesnt seem particularly common in my part of the country. Here in central NC youre gonna see a lot of this outside the apartmentdominated city centers small lots no fencing and housing constructed using a brick base + vinyl siding on top. As far as how you deal with privacy/safety wealthier people generally live in outer suburbs like Fuquay &amp have plenty of space. This sort of housing closer to the city center &amp with much smaller yards is on the more affordable side. I guess you have to put up with a bit less privacy for the lower price but safety isnt that much of a concern in any case. It depends on the city and neighborhood. In my small town it is uncommon to have a fenced front yard. Some people have fenced back yards and some don’t. Some just have chain link fences but some people have tall wooden privacy fences. In my neighborhood most yards are completely unfenced. It isn’t a densely packed city. You don’t go into someone else’s back yard without permission generally. We can see into each other’s yards but there is a lot of space between homes. A fence is required if you have a pool. It is not a high crime area. People put lights on their houses and lock house doors. Sometimes people have alarms/cameras. Fences in backyards are common for keeping dogs contained or if you have a pool or something. Fences in front yards arent as common here especially in suburbs due to one of our fav past times of sitting on the front porch and people watching I live in a city its very common for people to have fences in their front or back yards. We dont have a ton of space fences help us make sure our stuff doesnt end up in our neighbors yards. I would say its about 50/50 depending on the neighborhood even the block. We have a fence that runs our entire backyard down the side of our house and ends at our doorstep. The rest of the side yard and our front yard are stone retaining walls which keep people off the front yard and out of the garden beds. The fence is necessary for keeping our dog inside the yard and is also a proper privacy fence. Post 26 Is there a foreign cuisine in America whose popularity is disproportionate to the actual population of immigrants from that country? I dont know how to best convey the question but let me get into more details. Here in Canada Japanese cuisine is very popular maybe in the top 5 most popular cuisines. However the Japanese population here is relatively small As a result the vast majority of Japanese restaurants in Canada are owned by Korean or Chinese immigrants. The same can be said above about Thai cuisine. Its very popular relative to the actual population of Thai immigrants. On the flipside Filipinos are the third largest immigrant group in Canada however Filipino cuisine is still relatively under the radar to many Canadians. It definitely has grown in awareness recently but it is yet to hit mainstream popularity. Thai food down here as well. is a pretty interesting story Sushi. Im not kidding. Theres 8 sushi places within two blocks of my neighborhood and they are all always busy. Japanese definitely it’s so popular that many Japanese restaurants and sushi places are actually run by Korean immigrants and other immigrants from south east and far east Asia from my experience. Thai is probably a close runner up. I feel like the demand for Sichuan food far outstrips the actual supply of Sichuanese immigrants. On the higher end side Spanish. Im not sure if Ive ever met a Spaniard in the US despite DC being an international city but I can name a good 25 spots for tapas or paella off the top of my head. Ice despite the Icelandic population being close to nonexistent Similar for me in the PNW plenty of JapaneseAmericans but they’re not doing the immigrant running a restaurant thing so most Japanese restaurants have staff of various ethnicities. We do seem to be fans of lots of Asian cuisines and just got a Jollibee that people are obsessing over so maybe Filipino food is about to have a moment. Id say Japanese food as well they were large among Asian immigrants in general but as a whole Wikipedias telling me those with Japanese ethnicity number only 1.6 million and only 300k for Japanese born immigrants but sushi tempura ramen etc. are very common here. Thai is undoubtedly the most overrepresented and it is because the Thai government spent money promoting their cuisine to stimulate further interest in tourism Probably just about every foreign cuisine besides maybe Mexican because they have a large population. Asians in entirety have around 2% of the population of the US but Chinese Thai Korean Indian and Japanese restaurants are everywhere Greek. There is a decent number of Greeks in the United States including some of my own family but they’re definitely disproportionately represented in the restaurant industry. Also from what I understand a lot of Greek restaurants are actually run by Middle Easterners the food is very similar and Greek food is more marketable. The most popular ethnic food in America is Chinese. According to Pew Research only about 5 million people in the US identify as Chinese. Chinese/Asian food. Even the tiniest little town in the US likely have at least 1 Asian restaurant. It might be americanized version of Chinese food. But it is still good. The USA is a big ass country. This question is like asking if Europe has a cuisine thats disproportionate to the population. Its too big pick a state or region As an example I would say Mexican food in my home state of West Virginia because even small towns with no Mexican population often have a Mexican restaurant. But someone from Texas would think I was nuts because they have a Mexican population there and it would feel more proportionate. Similarly Chinese take out in the mid West. In every town but not a person from China in sight This is very common in most other places. Relatively speaking Japanese Americans are a smaller community than Chinese Korean Vietnamese or Filipino Americans yet sushi and general Japanese steakhouses” are the most popular Asian restaurants besides generic Chinese places. Those 2 are in a separate league from Korean Vietnamese Filipino places and just like where you’re from most of the owners are not Japanese in that circumstance Thai food and its because the Thai Government has a system where they help set up thai restuarants in foreitn countries Southern California Sichuan. So many fucking Sichuan restaurants and so few actual Sichuan people here. My friends from Chongqing like to say most places are Sichuan food made for people from Beijing/Shanghai. The city next to where we live on the weekdays has a population of only 37000 and more than 26 Sichuan restaurants I stopped because I got bored of counting. Theres suancaiyu places malaxiangguo places skewer pot big corporate chains from China local chains malatang places etc. Some Shanghai restaurants even put some Sichuan dishes on their menu because they are so popular. I think Thai. It’s really popular but I have never met a ThaiAmerican Most traditional American foods that are derivative of old world cuisine Japanese. The fact that most Chinese restaurants serve sushi shows as much Where I live youd be hard pressed to find an actual Chinese person. We have a few Chinese restaurants and they are run by Malaysians and Filipinos. We did have an actual great place a few years ago that was owned/run by Chinese people. They are no longer here due to Donalds Pandemic. Every pizza place in my hometown is owned by white people and staffed by Mexican people. Not an Italian in sight. Definitely Fastlandia. Ive never even met someone from Fastland but the number of Fast Food restaurants we have here is staggering. In southern states that’s definitely Chinese if you even consider it Chinese food. Don’t think you could broadly apply this question to the entire U.S. Sushi and pho have been catching up though Where I grew up in Maine Chinese food. Maine has very low diversity. Our high school of 1200 students had exactly one student from China. But our town had 3 or 4 Chinese restaurants all run by Caucasians. Probably Thai. There was a big push by Thai government to promote Thai cuisine in the U.S. so it’s now perhaps the most common foreign cuisine after Italian and Mexican. Thai overwelmingly so. But all around delicious. Probably Thai. Thailands government had a large role in popularizing Thai cuisine in the US as a public relations strategy. Thai. There are only like 350000 Thai Americans and yet there is 10000 Thai restaurants in America. One restaurant per 35 people. Chinese food. People from China weren’t allowed to immigrate or become citizens of the US until we needed them for WWII so the Chinese population is still very small. However there’s a Chinese food restaurant on every corner. Where I live there is an entire subreddit dedicated to restaurants that serve pho! Yes Japanese Thai Peruvian Burmese Id say Thai food. Now in my area anything that is called Mexican is 95% of the time not owned or run by Mexicans but Salvadoreans instead. Pho? You’re speaking about restaurants? Thai but this is a result of Thailands government using gastrodiplomacy for tourism and to help spread the prevalence and adaptation of their food so people become familiar with it. This started in the early 2000s and in the last 20 years has been a pretty resounding success. Thai food is now on par with most American Chinese places in terms of commonality and enjoyment. For the people who havent ever looked at Thailands history they never were a colony or conquered in the way that other nations were. In doing so it became about diplomacy instead. They were allies with the Brits during WW1 allied with the US during the Vietnam warand occupied post WW2 as Thailand was an Axis allied nation and due to the 20th century colonialism that surrounded them part of their modernization as a society included heavy English influence. So it is still common in Thailand for English to be spoken and understood. Its around 30 percent and while that is far lower than say the Philippines its still quite a lot of people. Due to all of this the gastro diplomacy and immigration and tourism programs have flourished effectively anywhere English is spoken. Thailand has put serious soft power behind their food and from what weve seen so far its working. Im a food nerd in rural S Indiana who lived in Missouri and I know what Lard Na is and *love* it. Love. I do not live in the most culinarily happening place but there are about 10 thai places I can choose from when I drive into a small midwest city. Thats a thai place for every 10k people or so. https//www.economist.com/asia/2002/02/21/thailandsgastrodiplomacy Its not just the US/Canada/UK/Australia/NZ but the focus on English speaking nations has been the most successful that Im aware. Pretty much the same here. Theres also Zainichi Koreans who often have Japanese names as a result of the colonial period. My favorite childhood restaurant was run by a family from that diaspora. There’s a large number of Puerto Rican people in my area I know they aren’t technically immigrants but they have a different culture from the rest of the US but there’s not a lot of Puerto Rican restaurants outside of the cities. There are more Chinese restaurants in the United States than there are McDonalds Burger King Kentucky Fried Chicken and Wendys **combined**. Estimates range from 41000 to 45000 Chinese restaurants across the US. This number surpasses the combined total of all those fastfood chains. But not Subway. You actually nailed it with Japanese food because outside of the West Coast theres very few people of Japanese origin in America despite the number of sushi/hibachi/ramen shops all over. Probably Asian specifically Chinese. I live in the middle of nowhere IL but decent sized city…we have a disproportionate number of all kinds of restaurants. Anyway we have 22 Chinese restaurants and 5 Indian restaurants 4 Thai restaurants. And then just a crap ton of other restaurants. Google isn’t cooperating but we probably have close to 200 restaurants. All for 100K people. Our area is consistently known as one that has high ratio of restaurants to population and number of people that eat out. It really is crazy. But I love the variety we have! Thai food right now is booming in my area One of the most American things the cheese [ham] burger is named after a city in Germany so it probably counts. Someone said sushi thats got to be one. There are proportionally more French restaurants than French immigrants I would assume. I feel fortunate to live in an area with a high concentration of Japanese expats because we have truly awesome Japanese food that kind of radiates out from their nexus point. As for overrepresentation Ill offer Brazilian food in particular the churrascarias. I work with a lot of Brazilians remotely but theres only a single Brazilian family that I know here in SE Michigan. They buy meat at Costco and make do because there are no ethnic Brazilian markets. There are at least four maybe five churrascarias in the region however. In comparison when I lived in Mexico I met Brazilians all the time and the churrascarias there were Brazilian owned. Their overrepresented cuisine is Argentinian although some of them are Argentinian owned most of them are Mexican through and through. I live in the PNW and I feel this about Korean places. I mean I’m Korean so I don’t really mind but there are so many Korean style bakeries opening up. Asians comprise 13% of WA state demographics but within that Koreans make up about 1%. It’s weird. Japanese Thai and Greek would be the main ones. Then the flip side of some large immigrant groups whose cuisines aren’t well known are Filipinos Nigerians and Central Americans. In Las Vegas sushi places are almost always korean. Every city on the Continent will have Authentic Italian Food regardless of size or ethnicity. Hell the Italian place near me is run by a big Afghan family. Italian food definitely has an oversized reach vs actual amount of Italians in America. Lebanese P ramen or japanese food in general. outside of the west coast the japanese populations are pretty small. in the midwest I havent been to a ramen place ran by japanese just white people and chinese lol In the DC area the largest immigrant population is Salvadoran but there are way more Mexican restaurants here. Sushi is extremely popular in most parts of the U.S. despite the fact that we have a low percentage of Japanese immigrants. It seems like the ratio of Pho places to Vietnamese people is kinda high here in Houston and alot of the staff speaks Spanish. So my vote is Vietnamese! Kudos to the second &amp third generations who name these places things like pho Q and pho king. If you think of pizza as Italian food instead of American food then I would go with pizza. Thai food. Very popular here. Very few actual Thai people. Probably chinese/sushi places Pizza its everywhere. Japanese is the easy answer Not familiar with Fillipino food but if it is as delicious as Japanese Chinese Thai food please give it to me. Pho Post 27 Does New York City have their own version of Cockneys? Author PureChampionship3993Post Text So what cockneys are are a group of working class white men who grew up in the inner cities of London and are known for their no nonsense streetsmart attitudes had rough on the edges accents too Working class men who take no shit? Thats a lot of native New Yorkers. You know that stereotypical Italian American accent people associate with New York? Yeah I have that accent and many people in my part of Brooklyn do it’s not exclusive to Italians either I hear it along all ethnic groups. White ethnic folks in the outer boroughs like Italians Greek and Irish here in southern Brooklyn. Many of them have left for Long Island New Jersey or worse Staten Island. Many parts if my neighborhood have a large Middle Eastern population from places like Lebanon Yemen or Egypt. You just described the stereotypical working class New Yorker. [deleted] Yes historically that cultural niche was filled by a large percentage of New Yorkers until the city started to gentrify in the 80’s. By the early 00’s many of those folks had been pushed to the outer buroughs. We generally refer to them as Italians. At risk of getting downvoted because its Reddit Trump is basically a billionaire LARPing as that. Hes a nononsense brash New Yorker who acts much more working class than most people in his socioeconomic bracket. Yes Bugs Bunny is pretty a caricature of what you describe. They are all over but maybe more so in Brooklyn and Queens. Not looking to bother anyone but they definitely will not tolerate other peoples crap. Heres a sample of what you can expect if you get into it with one.. Check out Howard Beach Queens. This is literally just your average workingclass male New Yorker ethnicityagnostic. For sure and perhaps most famous are some of the ItalianAmerican communities. A fairly recent example that reminds me of this are the twins from the most recent season of *The Circle* on Netflix who played as Gianna” are blue collar workers from Staten Island and definitely had that take no nonsense” vibe and accent. Not anymore. Those types of Archie Bunker” working class New Yorkers are extinct. They’ve mostly moved out of the major metropolitan areas altogether and are in the suburbs or rural areas. Probably like old school newsie Brooklyn Manhattan is pretty much an offshore boutique. But the outer boroughs are another story. The attitude is still there across many different groups though mostly in the outer boroughs and New Jersey since Manhattan is increasingly a rich kid playground. I think the closest thing to Cockney though was a specific type of Brooklyn accent that called girls goils” and referred to dem bums” and so on. That’s not heard much on the street anymore just like old school Cockney accents have been eclipsed. Does New York City have their own version of Cockneys? No. I know one mid 50s from Brooklyn and a lot of people Ive met like him are around that age. The thing is hes outnumbered by a sheer wall of hundreds of white men also from Brooklyn who buy artisanal mayonnaise and go to paint n sips regularly. Watch Newsies to hear a range of NYC accents. Whichever the accent that pronounces the hard G in Long Island is probably the equivalent of Cockney. Traditionally this would have been people from Brooklyn. The American Cockney accent would sound something like Bugs Bunny. Post 28 Does Americans great the pastor by lifting their hat? Is it common that americans great the pastor by lifting their hat? Americans dont wear a lot of nice hats. We wear baseball caps and they would not be appropriate church attire. Tipping a hat towards anyone is antiquated in my experience. I only see people do that ironically. the word you are looking for is greet American pastors aren’t usually in their frocks outside of Sunday morning. We don’t offer any kind of special greeting to them. Especially Protestant pastors more likely to be just Hey Brother Dave/Pastor Dave how’s it going?” No. You don’t wear hats in church. My rabbi would think of that as very odd. A man tipping his hat to someone is considered a gesture of respect and since churchgoers presumably view their pastors with respect they might well do so to honor their pastors. However it’s been decades since men wearing hats except baseballstyle caps as a matter of fashion was common. There just aren’t that many men wearing hats to tip them to anyone now. It’s worth mentioning that it’s considered good manners for a man to remove a hat while indoors. So a man might take off a hat when entering a house of worship. Obviously religions like Judaism where men are expected to cover their heads are an exception. First you need to find someone wearing a hat. I would feel odd lifting a pastors hat. No. Culturally we typically remove hats before entering a building where a pastor would be. Personally I rarely wear hats and rarely encounter pastors. I work with a man who was a pastor in Haiti before he moved here. I greet him with a fist bump. Cant wear hats in church Are you just now getting episodes of The Andy Griffith Show? I thought the speed of light was faster than that. The only place you’ll see a hat in church is at a cowboy church which is an extremely niche thing. That and some southern black churches and in that case it’s mostly women wearing them. The short answer is no. There is no etiquette specific to greeting a pastor. Theres another traditional etiquette of churchgoers to not wear hats in church so it is possible that youre seeing people taking off their hat to enter the church. The new partychurches dont care about this. Theres also just tipping a hat in old movies where everyone greeted everyone by tipping their hat like a old sup nod What a beautiful Sunday to praise the lord \*tips fedora\* No. Did you watch some American silent film where this occurred? Only internet atheists tip their hat to m’lady Nobody wears hats anymore No not common at all. I’m not sure I’ve ever seen someone tip their hat nonironically. I dunno if the pastor would appreciate me touching their hat If I saw my priest in public I would not. I also wouldn’t wear a hat in church. Im not certain Ive ever met a pastor. You \*might\* get hat etiquette among members of the military or people really into wearing cowboy hats but for the most part its considered old fashioned. Historically most American women wore hats and veils in church due to 1 Corinthians interpretations. It’s more common in the Black American community now but it used to be widespread until the 60s. Most American men also wore hats to Church but would take them off indoors to be respectful. You will see this in older American movies. Nowadays American men rarely wear hats anywhere. [deleted] Sure. In the 1880s. Wearing a hat is not a common practice anymore and you would not wear one inside a church. No Maybe older folks but wearing hats is not as common as it used to be except in cold weather. No. Wearing hats Particularly dress hats has become so uncommon after the 60s that the common traditions of what to do while wearing hats is mostly lost. But the greeting of respect prior to that was to tip the brim of your hat down not to lift it. Additionally the tradition of not wearing your hat in the church building holds stronger than the greeting traditions while wearing a hat if you did wear one. Americans dont generally wear hats anymore outside of like baseball caps. But it would be considered inappropriate or it was when I was younger and still attending mass to wear a ballcap in church. This may differ by denomination though. Protestant churches seem way more casual than the Catholic churches I attended plus you never saw the priest until mass had started. You don’t wear hats in church I actually did greet a pastor yesterday by pantomiming tipping my hat. He was wearing one and I wasnt. No. Almost no one wears hats here unless they’re doing something where they have to be outside for a long time in sunny weather. The people that do never take them off either because they’re balding or because no one ever taught them proper etiquette. Have you been watching old movies? Once upon a time lifting your hat was a respectful greeting whether it was to a lady your pastor or anyone else. We dont really do that anymore. Most of us don’t wear hats tipping a hat is a fairly antiquated greeting. That would be quite awkward as Im a nihilist and dont wear hats. I dont even know what that is Not to my knowledge. Most people either say hello or walk on by religious clergy of any type. Honestly you wouldnt see a lot of churchgoers wearing hats to church. Really a simple Good Morning maybe a handshake would be enough to greet a pastor. No. Personally I greet pastors by staying as far away from them as possible and certainly wouldnt show them any more respect than any other random stranger/passerby more like less LESS respect if anything. Those types of hats are pretty rare here. Most hat wearers are wearing baseball hats and youd never wear that to a church. Nope we usually just say hi or shake their hand. No different than anyone else we would greet. Other than older die hard catholics Christians in the US don’t put pastors up on a pedestal. Our tipping culture is now only related to money...and maybe cows. Do kids still go cow tipping? I assume you meant greet? The Bible explicitly forbids men to wear head coverings in worship settings which are the settings youd most often see your pastor. I cant think of the last time ive worn a hat or seen a pastor I am referring to if you meet the pastor in public. Like at homedepot. Post 29 What do Americans think of men with long hair today? Author CantCatchABreakYo As a man with long hair. They dont Im a guy with long hair the only comments I get are from women telling me my hair is gorgeous. Occasionally they ask me what I use on it when I tell them oldspice 2 in 1 shampoo and conditioner they look at me like Im lying to them or something but otherwise no one comments on it. If you want pretty hair dont fuck with it dont dye it dont curl it or straighten it just leave it alone. Nothing in particular. Maybe older folks and super trad” types still hold low opinions of them from times past but it’s not even a consideration for most of us. I think of Fabio I dont even notice to think anything of it. Long hair on men has been common since the 1960s. The Boomer Dudes frequently had long hair as young men and still do as old men. We are no longer a society where older people think long hair on men is weird. Some men pull it off very well! Soms dont haha I notice that I will admire the ones who *do* pull it off well however. Its quite rare when it happens but it does happen. No problem unless they put it in a manbun” it just looks so goofy. Ive tried to grow my hair out before but it starts to curl. I live in the desert but as soon as I get to humidity it turns into white guy fro. I asked a barber one time to be honest and tell me if I could pull it off he told me I could but Id have to put product in it every day. Not willing to cross that line. I LOVE men with long hair. I mean it isn’t a must but I think it is super attractive. I doubt most people care or bat an eye at this. Unless you have some very conservative and traditional views this isnt a problem for the vast majority of people. It is dependent upon the individual and the care executed on his hair and overall appearance. Post covid long hair is way more common.. Depends. My grandma says its shameful and I look like a girl. Ive been told by multiple people closer in age to me that I look like Jesus. The vast majority of people however do not seem to care one way or the other. By and large its not an issue. Dirty or unkempt doesnt look good on any length but in general if its tidy no one cares. ***That person has long hair*** Is about the extent of it. My husband has long hair and perceptions are mixed. Older men and younger women usually hate it. Older women and younger men usually love it. Im a guy with long blonde hair. Ive had some women tell me its beautiful and a couple of bald guys tell me it must be nice lol. Thats about it. Growing up I remember being told long hair and tattoos would keep you from getting a job. Quickly learned that was bullshit and if you had desirable skills youd have a job. Figured if my coworkers visible tattoos were ok long hair was too. I was right. The only people that don’t like men with long hair are dudes with bald heads like Stephen miller but he hates everything and everybody anyway I grew my hair out during the pandemic donated 14 to Children With Hair Loss in 2023. I got nothing but compliments on my hair most commonly from older women. I ended up missing it so much Im growing it out again. Ill make another donation at the end of 2026 and this time I plan on raising money. I never had a negative experience due to my hair. Other than sweating cleaning my shower drain or being around power tools. I went through a job hunt while my hair was at its messiest length and I found a cushy gig. I LOVE men with long hair. I’m older. And the calling men ma’am for it just makes me angry lol. My hubs had long hair and pony tail when young and a family member said to my hub’s USMC ret. Dad that he didn’t know he had another daughter. He didn’t get angry he just smiled at my hubs and changed the subject. Love that. I like it. I grew up with it in the 70s. We dont. If you asked me how many men with long hair I passed by today its the same as asking me how many bald men I have passed. I genuinely dont know. My mom fell in love with one in the 80s. He cut it before I was born so I thought it was weird as a kid. As an adult I find it beautiful and think more men should do it! As an employer I have a sign instructing longhaired freaky people to not apply at my fine establishment. No one cares. I take that back there are some people who care and no one cares about their opinions. I take that back. Some people love those people and listen to them. We let them and dont pay them much mind. I love it. Absolutely nothing at all. Cut your hair into the exact map of the English channel for all I care. My 37 year old son is lead fish biologist at a hydroelectric dam. His hair is well below his waist. He keeps it knotted up at his collar at work. Nobody cares. Except me because I am SO jealous of that long thick wavy hair! Im a male with long hair. Havent been made fun of for it since I was in... laughs... well... grade school. Nobody cares. I suppose there are some fuddy duddies kicking around who think its effeminate. But nobody cares what they think. Its just another hairstyle. Most men with long hair seem to live and let live. No drama. Most dont care as long as the man actually looks good with it. Some men look much better with short hair. This American doesn’t judge people by their haircut I dont think anything I looked like a hobo when I had long hair and it was a pain to wash. I am not a personal fan of it on myself. I literally dont care about it on anyone else though. No one cares what people do with their hair. Just like no one cares if you walk around in sweat pants and tshirts every day. I dont. Don’t really care for man buns but you do you. I generally dont. Its hair. Mine is short yours is long. Whos to say which one is right? You do you. Depends on how well groomed he is. There are guys who can pull it off. Damn why am I starting to have my hair thin out while this motherfucker still has a full head of hair??” We worship one It’s not 1954 anymore we don’t care If its clean and well maintained we dont care. Whatever floats your boat. Personally I work outside a lot and its too damn hot for long hair but appearancewise who cares? Overall dont care. But man buns do look funny. It depends on the person and how well they care for it. Clean and neat is fine. Once upon a time mine came almost to my belt. Old ladies seemed to love it. My husband has long hair and I think its so freaking hot 🔥 I dont think about it. Why would I? It is common enough for men to have longer hair. Maybe not as common for their hair to be down to their hips but shoulder length or mid back. I think if men with long hair take care of it conditioning trimming split ends etc then it can look nice. Its largely nonissue. Men with long hair are hot Virtually nothing. We do not care if men wear their hair long short or shaved. As long as it looks good nobody cares. Long hair and a long beard. I’m just too damn lazy to cut both. I’d cut beard before my hair tho. I find it attractive. I’m married to a guy with long curly hair. Im a 45 year old man and have had long hair off and on my entire life. When I got my first job in fast food in the mid 90s they made me put my hair up under a hat. Other than that I dont think anyone ever cared other than people occasionally complimenting it. I had long hair decades ago but not anymore. It is very much neutral a nonevent not contemplated at all in any way that makes it stand out. It would not surprise me to see a man of any age/occupation/whatever with long hair. Do they was their hair every day? Do they ever want to cut it off? Ive had long hair on and off my entire life. When I graduated college I told myself that if a job wouldnt hire me with long hair it wasnt worth working. I felt no discrimination. Stark contrast to 15 years ago when long hair on men made it impossible to get a job. Growing up in the rural south some people viewed long hair on me to be sissy” and some people viewed it as an outlaw” type thing no in between. Long hair on men is very accepted these days. I myself have long curly hair and I get compliments on it all the time. Every opinion about it is out there. Sometimes it looks good and sometimes it doesn’t look so good. But to each their own. It’s not my thing… but it’s their body their choice. They need to stop using 3in1 and take care of it or cut it off. Men who look good with long hair always look better with shorter hair. I had very long hair when I was younger like a rock star. It gradually got shorter through college. I don’t know what else to say about that. What I don’t like is long hair on much older men where it is grey and they are balding. It just looks very unkempt. But it’s none of my business honestly. To each his own. It depends. Are we talking well maintained long hair? Then two thumbs way way up. If its a poorly maintained rats nest and grease pit Ill pass. Long haired guys are hot! Lucky bastards I could care less about the length of someones hair As long as its clean and well groomed its just the same as any other hairstyle. It just looks much worse when its not clean. I dont think theres much negative stigma left with that except maybe amongst the oldest of Americans. When I wore my hair long 80slate 90s there was still a little stigma in small town Texas but it wasnt anything I couldnt live with. Nowadays I look at guys with long hair and think Man I dont miss having long hair in this heat! Hawt My brother has long hair it’s beautiful he does anything but washes and brushes it… I f on the other hand have had to buy extensions to get his length…. I’m mostly just jealous 😂 I don’t think anyone has cared about that since the 1970s. Negative opinions of men having long hair died in Gen X. I dont know a single Millennial or Gen Z who cares about that sort of thing but my Gen X dad still equates Long Hair with Hippies. So its 100% and age thing with conservatives leading the hate charge per usual. Depends on how he looks rocking a man bun or if they have the face for it. Some it’s amazing… many it’s not If its clean no issues with me. That goes for men as well as women. Dreads gross me out. I would guess about 50% of people with dreads clean them properly. Goddamn Beatles and their long hair That they are free to choose whatever hair and style they prefer. I don’t. It’s a free country wear your hair however you want. My son has long hair. Everyone just genuinely thinks he a girl. I dont think most people think twice about dudes with long hair. Its been a thing since at least the 70s and nobody thinks its odd. I have dated some long haired men in my life and I always thought it was super appealing. Long and short hair trade off how common they are from... Well kinda forever. Even in ancient times. Right now Id say long hair is out but itll come back in 10 years or so. omg please make a comeback here i guess the fade” is a professional look but it’s just so… blegh IMO Whatever floats your boat. I don’t think anything of it either way. It’s just hair. Depends on style and age. Usually try to guess if they lived through the 70s and 80s or millennial who based identity on 70s or 80s or god awful man bun chef / part time barber / drop shipper on the side we don’t Redneck I dont My personal opinion is guys shouldnt have long hair. But ultimately I dont care what other people do. Ill still treat everyone the same. Redneck Kind of like a dude wearing a speedo. Most cant/shouldnt but you do you. It will also probably get me thinking things like I wonder why? I wonder how long hes been sporting that look What does his partner think? Are they being honest in their assessment. e.g. I have a friend that does a combover and his wife tells him he looks cute. But in the end who cares. Gay….not that there’s anything wrong with that. [deleted] Redneck hippie or heroin addict/hippie/guitar player AKA Kurt cobain Post 30 What’s your local ghost story”? I 36m grew up in a small town around Syracuse NY and we all heard the legends of Whiskey Hollow Road”. It’s a winding fiveish mile road without any street lights. The legend I always heard was that there was a murderer who was basically exiled” to the end of the road so no one ever accidentally stumbled upon him. There was also a small rock overhang that we would party at that has since been taken down from my understanding. Devils rock In moodna creek. Apparently there were settlers murdered and sacrificed to slash on it and their ghosts were in the river. Freaked me out when we were walking past it in the creek and SOMETHING got a hold of my leg and wouldnt let go I think it collapsed? If it didnt it was about to and taken down for that reason. There was also the story of the Volkswagen turtle at Beaver Lake apparently a group of teens were driving around in the roads when it was still a farm and ended up in the lake where a huge snapping turtle ate the car. Legend has it its still in the lake.... I think the nearest real ghost story to where I grew up is the Jersey Devil I used to live in a town north of Pittsburgh where there was a battle in the French and Indian War and people claim to see or hear ghosts of the colonial soldiers and the Native Americans who died there occasionally. The locals in Nevada City rounded up all the Chinese crammed them into a mineshaft and drowned them all. No proof that this ever actually happened but its been a legend for about 150 years now here. Oh man! The two that come to mind are donkey lady and la llorona. Fellow New Yorker here my hometown is right by Sleepy Hollow! No specific ones from folktales but the movie the hills have eyes was shot in my hometown so the fear of random canibals living in mountaintops was certainly there We’ve got the Mothman. Although he’s more of a Cryptid. Across the river from me there’s a bunch of legends about the Black Angel in a Council Bluffs cemetery. Legend is that if you count the steps going up at Fairview Cemetery you’ll get a different count going down and that the angel statue has eyes that follow you. The artist of the sculpture spent most of her life in an insane asylum which plays into some of the lore. WTF. The people of Syracuse dropped off a murderer 5 miles up the road and hoped he’d just stay up there? IDK I come from hill country so walking 5 miles up the road for a piece of ass is just part of life. So weve got quite a few including some that date back quite some time. The ghost of a murdered lady now haunts City Hall because the hotel shed been murdered in has since been torn downit had been in whats now the parking lot for City Hall and the police department. In the general area weve got booms that nobody seems to know the actual cause and happen in the evening theories range from car backfires some idiots shooting off smaller fireworks that cant be seen in the sky train stuff as weve a number of trains that come by as well as a train station as such for freight trains and various wacky ones a local werewolf and Im not entirely sure what else in my hometown. Theres also a Crybaby Bridge in a community 15 minutes southwest of us with the usual tales attached. In my high school ppl would say this one hall was haunted but i wouldnt be surprised if it was to just try and fuck with freshman San Pedro California Jackie Hernandez. She sees a ghost in her house that actually harms her and her family. Beware if you google it you might get scared af. Gettysburg. Selfexplanatory. Though Lancaster also has some interesting ones. The Fulton Theater is allegedly haunted. Dates back to the 1850’s John Wilkes Booth performed there and before it was built the county jail was there. The old jail was the site of a massacre of fourteen Native Americans by settlers in 1763. I think every town has a hell’s gate.” Ours was an old bridge in the country. Supposedly if you turned off your headlights before driving onto it and stopped in the middle the. Got out you could see a man on the bank of the river below. We tried it once and one of us claimed to see a body. No one else did and we didn’t believe him. A few days later they found the body of a woman who had been abducted before our antics. Seems he was telling the truth. Bunnyman Bridge. Google it So there is this little town in Massachusetts called Salem... But that would be cheating. So in Lynn MA there is dungeon rock. 1600s some former pirate sets up camp in a cave in the woods occasionally going into town to buy supplies with a suspicious variety of coinage. Ye olde cops try and arrest them but he escapes back into the woods. Chase gets called off because a massive earthquake levels the town and collapses the cave with the pirate and their treasure inside. 1800s some dude buys the land and starts digging claiming a pirate ghost was telling him where the treasure was. He never found anything and the site is a minor tourist attraction now. I’ve heard of Whiskey Hollow Road. I grew up in the area too. On the other side of Syracuse. Pigman bridge just outside of buffalo. enough said Sensabaugh Tunnel The Bunnyman. Goatmans Bridge in Denton TX. and the Screaming Bridge in Euless TX. Goatmans was featured in one of the best episodes of Buzzfeed Unsolved. I went to high school less than a mile away. When I lived in Southern Maine growing up my class took a field trip to learned about our very old little towns history and one of the places we visited was the old graveyard. There was a grave there with the image of a woman carved into it and a long slab of stone lying over where the body would be buried. Years after she died someone started spreading rumors that she was a witch she was an herbalist that touching that long stone would burn your hands and that the crows that flew around the graveyard were her familiars. A barge hit a bridge in Oklahoma several years ago and cars and horse trailer fell in. Since then local fishermen in boats would occasionally hear a child crying. Tucson has many but here’s one you might have heard The legend of La Llorona the crying woman is a common story in the area with variations about her being condemned to search for drowned children. Pythian Castle. It has housed orphans and prisoners of war during WW 2 among other things. It’s now open for ghost and history tours and for private events. Not sure if this was a supernatural experience of whatever but the universe gave me quite the sign. One night I was driving home from working in another town. It was like 330 in the morning. I was 20 minutes from home. All of a sudden in front of my car I see a fox chasing a rabbit across the highway followed by a low flying owl and then all of a sudden the sky lights up super bright and a huge shooting star/meteorite? goes flying in the exact same direction. It all happened in a matter of one or two seconds. I dont know what it was but I had a very warm sensation like someone was reaching out to me from beyond. Legend has it that a school bus was stalled on the railroad tracks and was hit by a train killing all of the children. If you put your car in neutral on that road the ghosts of the children will push your car. People put talcum powder on their bumper to show the little fingerprints. In actuality the bus accident never happened the sense that the car is being pushed is an optical illusion and any fingerprints showing up in the powder were already there. I live in a village that grew up around an old Hudson’s Bay fort. The fort is a national historic site. There are paid interpreters at the Fort government employees who dress in period costume and do an excellent job explaining things to visitors. There are also volunteers at the Fort who wear period costume. Apparently visitors have remarked on how nice it is when they come with their kids and there’s also a young boy dressed in period costume for them to interact with but nobody knows who this child is. My town is home to the notorious haunted painting The Hands Resist Him. https//en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Hands_Resist_Him Though I’ve lived in Tennessee for 38 years I am from Summerville South Carolina which used to be a small town. There has long been a story about the Summerville lights. My church supposedly had two masons building the bell tower and one fell to his death and his coworker freaked out and put his body inside a wall. Many people have reported activity. I haven’t seen anything even during solitary night vigils. Look up St. Marks Cheyenne The Jersey Devil The Spook light in the 4 state area. There use to be a few of them around when I was younger and each had a story associated with it. The three I remember the most each had a different personality and color. The Hornet one wandered and was white and blue. Its story was supposedly a woman looking for her lover. The state line one was a native woman and her lover that died together while in the forest. It was white and yellow. The last one was near a ravine and glowed red orange and yellow. It was supposedly a murderer that died before he was satisfied. I’m sure other people have different stories associated with them but this are the ones I was told. At the end of Partrick road up in the hills there is an old cemetery. Around there lurks the Rebobs now what the Rebobs are is up for debate. All agree that they are part winged monkeys some say that they are part robot some say they are created from cursed twigs. All agree that they have sharp teeth and red glowing eyes. This is from Napa California. Fort Warren on Georges Island in Boston Harbor was used during the Civil war to hold Confederate prisoners. One of the prisoners wives tried to help her husband escape wearing a soldier’s uniform but when she was caught she reached for her gun. The gun exploded and only wound up killing her husband. She was later hung for being a spy for the Confederacy. The soldiers who caught her were surprised to ediscover she was in fact a she and before her execution she requested to wear a dress. They gave her a black robe to wear since they didn’t have any. After her death soldiers said they saw her ghostly presence in the area. Theres a long dark passage with absolutely no light and its said that if you walk down it sometimes you can feel her frigid ghostly hand on you or get scratches or cut. I cannot tell you how fun it is as an elementary school student to go out to the island on a field trip and walk down a narrow100yard pitch black haunted hallway. And then to later chaperone young kids doing it for the first time. Its a right of passage. I lived in a house that was supposed to be haunted. There were three or four stories ranging from mythic creatures to people dying tragically. The only weird thing I encountered was the windows had a low whistle when the wind blew just right. Edit the only weird thing *other than the occupants* that is. There are a few. St Anthony’s church road devil a dark windy road past one of the oldest cemeteries in our area. Drive through at night and people have seen strange things culminating with the devil tree at the bottom of the hill where a sharp turn is. Claimed to see the devil’s face in the tree. The Waverly Hills Sanitorium a closed haunted hospital for tuberculosis patients in the early 1900’s. Said to be haunted by the hundreds of people who died there. Several paranormal investigators have been there and found various crazy things. I grew up relatively close to The Rougarou of the Louisiana swamps. The great wolflike cryptid hunting for lost souls. Crybaby Bridge in Maryland but they’re all over the country. Anyway Maryland is pretty haunted. In a town over the border from me there’s a story from King Phillips War lesser known conflict between white settlers and native Americans where the natives did a retaliatory strike on the town due to betrayal by the settlers. They killed a fair number of people. There’s a story of spirits haunting areas of the town to this day. I heard it from a few people so it’s at least a little well known. I’m from Colorado so we have ghost stories all over from the mining industry the captains of industry the native Americans etc. We had an abandoned mental health facility asylum that was supposedly haunted due to a murder that happened there nurse cheating on husband with orderly husband killed her the orderly and himself on the property it’s long gone now was torn down and a neighborhood and shopping center were built on the property. I went there once it was pretty interesting. I was in a sorority in college and our house was supposedly haunted by the ghost of a girl who died in a hazing prank in like the 1960s. My sophomore year I lived in the room where she allegedly died and some weird stuff did happen but I think it was just faulty wiring. I lived in Hutchinson Kansas for a few years. Supposedly two of the most haunted places in town were the Blue Duck Bistro and the basement of the city library for some reason. Dont think Ive heard of any ghost stories in other places Ive lived. Lantern Lane near Watseka Illinois. The story varies but the one my mother told me was that an old farmer and his wife were crossing a swollen river/creek/whatever during a flash flood late a night when they and their horse and buggy were swept away. They all drowned. Now its said if you go down to Lantern Lane at night park and shut your engine and lights off youll see an orange dot of light appear in the distance and begin to move closer. Some even say if you get out of your car to take a closer look itll be sitting on your trunk or hood. Ive never gone searching for the light but my mother and some of her siblings did and she confirmed that the light appeared and slowly got closer swinging around like it was held aloft in someones hand as they looked around. When it got close enough that they could actually make out the shape of the lanterns chimney my mother freaked out and demanded they leave. She believes its the ghost of the farmer looking for his wife. I grew up about a 15 minute drive from Skinwalker Ranch so thats definitely going to be my most popular one. Really though for that area theres a lot of ghost and supernatural stories that in my opinion are far better than the Sherman ranch that one just happened to get publicity. I know it doesnt count but my dad made up a ghost story to spook my sister and I on the drive to school when we went through a particularly creepy part of the drive. He named the ghost...The Pumpkin Man. Flahstaff AZ resident here the one I heard growing up was a custodian at the public library who murdered his family then fled to the Library and commited suicide while hiding from the cops in the basement archives suposedly he still haunts the building at night. No idea if its true but the Library does have a ghost hunting kit available to check out for those who want to have a look. The old hotel in town is also home to quite a few ghost stories most old hotels in the west have a few hauntings they actually list the most famous ones on their website. https//hotelmontevista.com/about/ When I was a kid we lived in a big Queen Anne style house. 3 stories with a basement. It had been built by a mine manager in Eveleth MN. The story goes that after the mine manager sold the house a widow lived there. She would kidnap children and hide them in a secret room under the front porch. She would use the round turret on the 3rd floor as her sewing room so when she was alive she would always be sewing new clothes for the children as they got older. Eventually she died and the kids starved to death. But sometimes at night youd see a light in the turret and you could see her ghost still sewing clothes. That was the story I was told. I never saw a ghost nor were there any secret rooms in the house. There wasnt even a void under the porch the porch was concrete and sat on the ground. Still kids would tell me that story all the time. It was a fun story. My high school was featured on a haunted places television series. It is the Kohl Mansion built in 1914 in Burlingame California. Its been a Catholic girls school since 1931. The Mansion is thought to be haunted by its owner Freddie Kohl who committed suicide in 1921. In 1973 one of my classmates came screaming out of the arts room which was above the ballroom that a man in old timey clothing stood in the doorway to the room. We ran upstairs but didnt find anyone. I never told anyone but Im positive I saw someone similar me looking up from the ballroom to the open balcony area. Spooky. Not really a ghost story but North Mississippi here. I live in our towns pop of 800 murder house. The last tenant here was beheaded with a sword by her daughter who was fucked up on Fent. Its not why we moved in the entire street just *happens* to be my bfs family. He wanted to take the opportunity. The murdered woman was distant family of his also. We have a memorial for her carved in the cement of the parking garage. I also just happen to be one of if not the only occultist in town. Its quite a trip. I have my own personal experiences with spirits but I dont think we have a communal one. Ted Bundy You can summon him and experience Bundy poltergeist. I don’t even want to type this for fear it will be enough to start it again. We don’t say his name out loud around here. Post 31 What are people wearing to go dancing at a bachelorette party these days? Hi everyone Im looking for an opinion. I am attending a bachelorette party in the Brainerd lakes area of Minnesota next weekend. During the day we are going out on a pontoon. After that we are going out to eat and then dancing at a lake restaurant/bar. Im in my early 40s. I havent been to a bachelorette party in 15 years. What do people wear these days for the dancing part of the night? A sun dress? Business casual? Shorts and a tank top? The last time I went dancing at a bar we usually went for the business casual look. Is that still the thing? I dont want to look like an out of place weirdo. TIA! ETA Im married. Im not trying to garner male attention at the bar just not look weird. A cute outfit A cute dress or pants that are cute and a top? Heels or shoes that are comfortable? Probably not sneakers something that would get you into an adult event Are you from the US? I am 38 you’re not much older than me. It’s the same stuff as the last decade of your life plus look nice” Maybe ask r/fashionadvice I would do a dress personally. Probably a fitted black mini dress. But a cute top with a skirt or a sundress is probably a safe bet as well. I went to my friends bachelorette party last year i was 22 and I just wore a cocktail dress or a sundress depending on the event the party was a 4 day vegas trip until we went back to the hotel and dressed in pjs. When I’m going out dancing I’m in a short skirt and tight top. It’s very out of the norm for me but I just want to look hot when dancing. Ask the other people going but just a nice dress or jeans and a cute shirt should be fine Gals I know usually wear a dress. But I don’t get invited to bachelorette parties. Also if you’re out on the lake practical may be more important than fancy. Is swimming involved? someone told me once that for all wedding events except for the actual ceremony you can comfortably wear cocktail attire. semiformal but comfortable. their advice was to follow the brides wishes for the actual event. in your case I would either try to find something that works for the whole day bring a top for the pontoon something light that blocks the sun or bring clothes to change into after the pontoon activities so that I can enjoy all events to their fullest. Youll fit right in with a sun dress and bathing suit underneath. Great area of the state! The fact that no one has sent out info on a dress code is a good sign especially since its so soon. Youd know by now if you were with a group that was going to get very uptight about this. Know that for girls night out bach trips etc. you can always always always text the other girls to ask what theyre wearing. If youre not comfortable with that or you feel like the feedback isnt clear another trick I use is looking the venues up on Instagram and then going to the tagged photos. Youll be able to get a great feel of the vibe from that. I flipped through some area pages for you and also saw that the girls youre a little anxious about are from Twin Cities. Im seeing a lot of basic cuts and styles where the personal fashio choice is mostly in fabric and prints. Its a rustic + floral lake vibe more than a nautical linen one. I think Id pack a casual shorts outfit a comfortable sundress and something shorter and sexier on the off chance that you need it. But this looks like a pretty relaxed girls weekend on the water for the most part. Id expect the city girls to be flashy in terms of bringing a brand new Bog bag rather than expecting anyone to go out in a cocktail dress. If youd wear it to a casual social event with a partners family youll be fine here. Another thing you could do is bring a basic neutral dress in cotton or linen and then vary it with accessories. But please dont stress too much. At our ages everyone understands that the important part of the weekend is that everyone managed to somehow all get free time at once and the focus is on celebrating the bride as comfortably as possible given the sacrifices everyone needed to make in order for it to happen. These weekends are waaayyyyyy more chill than in our mid20s! Spandex leotard and a full head dress. A modest one pieces swimming suit with a skirt Hoochie dress. When I dance at bachelorette parties I wear a banana hammock. bikinis Post 32 What are hospital waiting times like? Hey guys I’m considering moving to NYC with my partner for a job offer and I was just curious as to what A&ampE/ER waiting times are like in America? I assume it varies by state and city. We have NHS over here which is amazing but the last time I ended up in A&ampE a few years ago I waited 7 hours. Obviously I’m aware you have to pay in America but I’m assuming it’s worth it based on much quicker wait times and better service? Thats going to be a NYC question and I recommend asking on their subreddit. It varies depending on your location. There is no answer this. Emergency Rooms operate on a triage system where the most serious/time sensitive issues are seen first. It can be zero minutes or 6 hours depending on how busy the ER is and what your medical issue is. If you have a lifethreatening issue you will very likely be seen immediately. If you have a nonlife threatening injury it very much depends how many people are in front of you and what their issues are. This is extremely situational. This depends on the hospital how busy they are what you’re being treated for what others are being treated for etc. Could be a few hours could be an overnight admission to the hospital. Best to ask in r/nyc or r/newyorkcity for better answers about specific hospitals. ER visits in the US are intended to be for true emergencies they triage according to symptoms so that determines your wait time. Regular appointments should be scheduled in advance and urgent care illness minor injuries would see you same or next day. Just remember that the ER is prioritized based on severity and you shouldn’t be going there unless you have an emergency or else you’re just draining resources and wasting your own time. A lot of people who live in the US seem to get confused about when to see their PCP go to urgent care or go to the ER. It depends on the day really. You could get in right away or it could take something like 7 hours. Waiting times depend on the severity of your injury. If you walk in holding your eye they’ll step out from behind the front desk to pull you out of line before you can even speak to anyone ask me how I know. Contrary if you only have a broken arm you might wait long enough that they have to rebreak your arm to set it properly. Every ER is triage based as everybody has stated. Personally the only time I go to the ER is when my heart defibrillator has gone off and shocked me. Which it is set to do at 200 beats a minute. Or my pulse is up to over 150 beats a minute. So I never have to wait. I am always rushed straight back. The funny thing is I end up telling the ER doctors what medicine I need and what to do. Which they always ignore me and wait for a cardiologist to show up. Then the cardiologist tells them exactly what I told him/her. ER wait times are always much shorter on weekdays and longer on weekended nights when people are out fooling around more so if you plan to be seriously injured in NYC be sure to schedule accordingly. Any time of day it will be incredibly expensive. If you just catch a fever or sprain your ankle dont go to an ER just go to an urgent care also called a minuteclinic. Itll cost much less somewhere around $100200 for basic prescriptions and health services. ER waits can be many hours. They triage patients by order of severity so it’s not first come/first serve. There are stand alone private ERs now but they are probably billed to your insurance the same as a regular ER and I’m sure they offer less services than one at a hospital. Urgent care is a good option for a minor emergency. ERs have to treat patients by law so they get backed up with patients with minor issues and no insurance coverage. NYC has a proliferation of urgent care offices. These are meant for medical situations that are not serious enough for the ER but still require medical attention that day. CityMD is the most common and they can do a lot including xrays and prescribing medication. They will take insurance depending on the specific one you have. Wait times range from 5 minutes to maybe an hour depending on how busy the office is if you walk in but urgent care offices also sometimes allow you to make an appointment. ER waits are extremely dependent on where you are and who else is there. Like with any ER they will triage and take people first who need the most immediate care. If youre there for something that isnt immediately life threatening you will have to wait sometimes hours same as in the UK. Depends on how busy the ER is and the severity of your condition. The average wait time nationally is around 2.5 hours. In my local ER it took me around an hour just to be seen. This was in a rural part of Connecticut. In the ER in my hometown my father had to wait 6 hours just to be taken to a bed. I’m not sure about NYC but I was in DC and waited 20 minutes to be seen I imagine based on population it may be similar. Where I live in Vegas I’m in and out in less than 20 minutes. Your insurance will usually cover it from my experience. Also a foreigner that moved to USA here. Most we paid for a hospital visit was 20USD. Wait time was roughly an hour last time we went to A&ampE. Took about 10 minutes to get checked in they took insurance information there and then we sat in the waiting room for 40 minutes or so. This will differ depending on the hospital you go to though. Depends how serious your emergency is. Depends on how critical your care is Im from NYC and Ive been to the ER. Truthfully it depends day time the severity of your condition. There are also multiple stages of waiting. I moved through the initial waiting room where you walk in pretty quickly. But then you still wait to be seen which can take some time depending on how busy things are. And if you need tests you have to wait for the testing areas to be available. Its going to take a few hours in my experience. ER wait times can be very bad here too. I just googled NYC ER wait time and some area hospitals website says the average is 46 hours. Obviously they triage and will stop you from dying if youre actively dying but if youre in with something painful but not life threatening expect to be there a while. Very dependent on the Hospital. How well staffed they are how busy they are what types of emergencies they’re dealing with etc. In the SW burbs of Chicago we used to get in within 15 minutes. And the ER had an app so you could check wait times before you got there. Big city hospitals that accept anyone regardless of insurance are often going to be swamped. That said there are immediate care clinics you can go to if your issue isn’t major. Just got a bad cut hit up immediate care. Dropped from a heart attack get to an ER. Depends where you are. Im also British but used to live in San Antonio TX for example and I never saw ER wait times over 15 mins even on a Friday night one of the local hospitals had a big board out front that advertised the current wait time in the ER Depends on the hospital depends on the injury depends on the day. You could wait hours or you could be seen in moments. In NYC? Depends entirely on what hospital in which borough at what time of day. Also of course what you are there for were you a walkin/ambulatory whos ahead of you who comes in behind you with something more serious. In the US ER is supposed to be for EMERGENCIES. As in you broke your leg youre having chest pain and breathing problems youve had a sudden splitting headache that wont go away etc. Cant wait to see your real doctor but arent at active risk of death you go to the urgent care center or a walkin clinic. And in the ER you never want to suddenly be their #1 priority unless youre the only person there. I went in on my own for extreme chest and upper back pain. Good thing about the US when the attending couldnt figure it out EKG said not the heart type of pain and lack of fever said not appendicitis or kidney stones he sent me for a CT scan which meant he had them take me down the hall to the radiology department and do one NOW. At that point he suspected a torn muscle or broken rib. They did the scans ten minutes later Im back in the ER and five minutes after that the attending is back and says they are admitting me and theyre just waiting to decide whether to admit me here or transport me to the main hospital about an hour away in a larger city. There were no referrals or wait lists for scans or tests just go to another part of the hospital get the test immediately come back. If youre wondering bilateral pulmonary embolism with absolutely no known risk factors. It hadnt even crossed his mind as a possibility until he saw the CT. If Id had to wait a day or longer I would probably not have lived. It’s going to depend on the hospital time of day/day of week what the issue is they’ll triage so a heart attack will get seen immediately but you may sit for many hours for a broken finger. We also have urgent care clinics for more minor things during nonprimary care doctor hours and those you can usually make appointments online for specific time. The hospital I live right by is a Level I trauma center. It is the highestlevel designation possible by the state of Illinois. And one of the worst neighborhoods in Chicago is 15 minutes away so it’s always packed with gun shot wounds. You will wait forever unless you are dying. I don’t go there Last few time I have been to an ER for me or family members I have not waited more than 30 minutes. I live in NYC metro area. We have urgent care” many places with extended hours that provide care that does not require emergency room services such as CT scans MRIs surgery life support etc. typically the wait there ranges from being seen immediately to an hour or so wait in my experience. uhh ask this in r/nyc Just remember to call it an ER so you don’t confuse people if you do move here. In NYC in the ER? 😆 The wait time is going to be long depending what your emergency is. The ER in NYC is unique in its own way you’ll understand. With that being said yes healthcare is expensive here but yes better service. We do have free health care here too for people with less money or people over 65. Medicare and Medicaid. Anyways don’t think too much about it and hope you’ll never have to go to the ER. Its going to vary a lot by location but its also just going to depend on whats going on in the ER that day. Theyre going to triage in the ER so its not really a first come first served thing. Ive been helped after waiting 30 minutes and Ive also sat there an entire. day. It depends on how many people are in the area time of day and what youre coming in for. It can range from immediately minutes to several hours. If there are a lot of people and you come in with something that isnt lifethreatening be prepared to wait for more than an hour. If it is lifethreatening with a lot of people then you can be seen immediately. If there arent a lot of people then its shorter wait times for both. It greatly depends. They treat you based on how sick you are so sickest people are always first. So Ive gone in with an asthma attack and have been treated right away. I went in with my gallbladder and was there 12 hours. I was in for a broken ankle and was in and out in four hours. Unfortunately they misdiagnosed the broken ankle as a sprain... We also have urgent cares which are fantastic options over ERs. I went in for dehydration and they could give me IV fluids right there. If I hadnt broken my ankle at night I also would have gone to UC. Theyre good for sick visits if you cant get in with your primary care doctor. Theyre also cheaper. I think out of pocket without insurance is $150. My copay is $20 for urgent care. I will ALWAYS choose urgent care over an ER especially since Ive often gotten better care at UC than ERs. It depends on where you live and how many people are sick and injured. It was a 30 minute wait the last time I was in the ER. It’ll be night and day difference. You make an appointment and for a standard check up type appointment you may need to schedule it a few weeks out for something more urgent faster or immediately and you go with only a bit of waiting. Americans throw a conniption fit if we have to wait 15 minutes after our time in the waiting room and 15 more minutes for the nurse in the exam room. You will see nothing like the waiting times and care rationing you see in Britain. Yes you will see bills maybe big bills insurance payments potentially denied coverage etc. but you won’t see the wait times or control like NHS. You are assuming wrong. Emergency rooms are triaged and you’ll wait however long they think you can survive. The last time I was forced to go to an ER by my employer after a workplace accident. It happened in the early afternoon and it was 10 pm by the time I was seen and 2 am by the time I was released. It wasn’t something I’d typically go to the ER for myself but my boss thought I should get Xrays. Most people avoid going to the hospital if they can. Emergency rooms are designed to be places where true emergencies are triaged and patients stabilized before moving to followup hospital care. If someine has a life threatening emeragency theyll get seen quickly. If someone shows up in the emergency rooms without a serious emergency the wait will be quite long. Many areas have places called urgent care. These are places where you go if you have a medical need but its not an emergency. Often you can get a same day appt. or show up and wait 3060 minutes for them to fit you in. These are designed to keep people from going to emergency rooms for more routine but still unexpected medical needs. If you get there and do need true hospital care theyll send you over to the hospital. So for most needs you can get seen by someone the same day you decide you want to be seen. ER wait times are very long here too but if it’s not life threatening you can go to urgent care where you typically are seen immediately or under an hour. Defends on what’s wrong with you. They take the worst in first and so you pray that’s not you. Also depends on how busy it is there and if they’re short staffed. Basically never go. Most people dont need the ER but its hard to see a doctor or sometimes get into an urgent care. The times? Quit you job and bring your phone charger. Its going to be a hell experience and I find that dogs at veterinarians are treated nicer. Depends on why youre there. ERs dont go in order of first come first served they go in order of urgency. It varies substantially area to area and depending on volume. For serious stuff in most places on average youll be in a quickly but that can vary substantially based on volume. There are also a ton of clinic in a box and urgent care type places you can frequently walk in for less serious stuff and be seen quickly. It depends. During Covid they took me right away. And I got a room in 4 hours after arriving. A few years later at a different ER i was in the hallway for 15 hours. I was treated but in the hallway. Moved to a room 15 hours later. I doubt paying” is worth anything better than you have. It is however very situational. Depends on if it’s a busy town how big the ER is what you’re there for and what others are there for. Could be immediately upon entrance or you could be pushed back to like 12 hours if it’s a large city and super busy. If you aren’t there for something immediately life threatening you will end up waiting. And I mean like actively hemorrhaging unconscious or no pulse bones sticking out of skin active heart attack type emergencies to go right in I have waited 10 minutes and then another time I’ve waited 2 hours. Downtown Phoenix. Once I waited 0 minutes because I came in and immediately collapsed cold. The only answer is very general meaning averages. The actual wait time at a specific ER will totally depend on many factors but basically how urgent is your emergency and how busy is the ER at that moment with other very serious patients. That said heres some data on overall country averages with lots of caveats This entirely depends on the emergency you are having and the emergencies presently occupying staffs time in the back and the size of the hospital and the amount of staff working. Emergency rooms are supposed to be used for true emergencies such as loss of life limb or eyesight. When you come into the ER you will be triaged based on severity of your complaint. The true emergencies will be whisked off to the back nearly immediately so you would hope. But again it kind of depends what else is happening behind the scenes in the back. If there is a mass casualty event you will again be triaged based on survivability and severity as there is only so many staff members to go around. And equipment and space ERs are legally mandated though to never turn anybody away. But if you come into the ER with the complaint of toe pain for 4 weeks you will probably be at the bottom of the list to be seen even more so if patients come in with more severe complaints than you come in. Youll keep getting ranked amongst others of importance to be seen. Your wait time could be 15 minutes if theres nothing going on in the ER. It could be 22 hours. Also worth noting the stats are skewed as the documented wait time” is often time until seen my a provider” in triage who is not a physician. This person briefly speaks with you and possibly orders some labs/vitals before you return to the waiting room. On paper you have been seen” after only a few minutes but nothing has been addressed – it’s only to game metrics. Thanks to Reagan the ER is the closest Americans get to the NHS because they are required by law to treat all comers regardless of insurance or ability to pay. This creates budget deficits for the hospital when they treat people who cannot pay which has led to bankruptcy for many hospitals across the country. My sister once waited 16 hours in an ER for a cold. It depends on what is wrong. If youre dying right away. If you arent youll wait until you are dying or when they have time It really depends massively... time of day size of hospital vs size of location rural vs urban and most importantly how severe your issue is. If you show up to an ER with the flu? Youll be waiting forever. You show up with massive head trauma you get seen instantly. But unless you are actively and obviously dying expect a visit to the ER to be at least 68 hour wait. Though thankfully our hospital recently got some attached urgent care places which helps to offload all the people showing up because their kid has the sniffles and they dont have a doctor. I have heard from ER nurses Im friends with that Sunday and Monday are often more busy than Friday and Saturday. Not with major stuff but with all the little things that people put off going to the doctor for because they didnt want to ruin the weekend. Same goes for days after major holidays. You dont go to the hospital for everything here in the US. Hopefully you get a primary care provider for Im sick find a clinic to visit for Im hurt and only go to the hospital for I may die. PCP you get an appointment time with little to no wait. The clinic may have a 12 hour wait. The hospital is used appropriately you jump to the head of the line. My experience has been that if you call 911 and get an ambulance to take you the wait time is pretty much zero. If you get your friend/family/uber to take you youre going to wait. How long? It depends. ER time vary day to day dramatically. ER is for emergencies. urgent care for routine stuff. If you got to the ER. With say ankle pain/ swelling after twisting it be prepared to wait hours on hours. Unless they aren’t full. Also America paying more for healthcare does not guarantee wait times or better care. Us paying ridiculous amounts of money comes down to a poorly designed middle man/corporate based system having a country with 400 million heterogenous population US has more people below poverty level than Poland has people and the one plus of our inflated costs is it pays the pharmaceutical companies to come up with new drugs and devices that the rest of the world then uses free of charge. Wait times vary based on the severity of your emergency. Here we have a choice of ER or urgent care. Urgent care can be when you’re just sick a basic broken bone or sprain etc. Wait times are usually much less and if it is necessary they will transport you to a hospital!emergency room should it be necessary. Unfortunately too many people still use ERs for minor care which makes wait times longer than they should be. my partner for a job offer and I was just curious as to what A&ampE/ER waiting times are like in America? Do you guys use ER services frequently? Im curious why youre curious about this very specific type of medical facility generally reserved for people experiencing acute trauma/life threatening situations. There are many factors to consider 1. How many hospitals in the area 2. Time of day 3. Weather bad weather usually means more accidents 4. Staffing at hospitals 5. Location of hospitals 6. What your emergency is We actually went to one of our local hospitals on Tuesday. I have two that are about equal distance but we chose a smaller hospital but its in a less busy area. We also went around 1030 am on a Tuesday which is not going to be as busy as on a weekend or in the evening. There were a handful of people in the waiting area. I had to go and park my car and by the time I came back they had registered my mom. I was there not even 5 more minutes and the triage nurse called her so we did that. After that we were in the waiting room and they took her back for two things an ultrasound of her leg and bloodwork. We were back in the actual ER in a bed probably an hour after we got there. Now my moms case was complicated and required her to be admitted and it was about 4 pm by the time we got upstairs to a room but thats still less than your 7 hour wait. I dont think Ive had to wait any longer than 2.53 hours before being seen apart from triage and thats a busier day. But I have heard some people have waited longer. I live in the suburbs of Washington DC so we do have a lot of people here but we also have several hospitals available to us. 7 hours would be very unusual unless you were there for a hang nail. I mean where i live if you go to the er you get taken back within a few mins and are seen in order of priority based on symptoms.. One additional it depends to all the other comments. Some ERs will have a designated fast track where the triage nurse sends patients who most likely have an uncomplicated issue that is unlikely to require much workup. Things like simple laceractions and would care orthopaedic injuries that are unlikely to be fractures urinary tract infections etc. The patient is usually seen by a junior physicians assistant or nurse practitioner. Depending on how effeciently the system runs and how busy things are you may be in and out in as little as an hour. This service usually only runs during the day so of you go to an ER after hours youll get triaged with everyone else. I can only give you an idea from where I live but in my area the wait time is between 7 and 10 hours on a slow day and upwards of 20 hours when theyre busy. In the small town where I live there is a sign that if you’ve been waiting more that 20 minutes in the lobby to go back to the front desk. In 2022 my husband and I were in a large U.S. city and one evening I took him to an ER. He had a positive Covid test in our hotel that morning and was burning up with fever. Every time he needed the bathroom I had to pull him up and support him getting to the bathroom. About 630 pm he started to collapse when I let go of him in the bathroom. That was it — we needed get him to the ER. Fortunately our daughter and soninlaw were close by so helped get him into the car. We arrived at 7 pm and did not see medical staff until 335 am. That night in the ER was like a crazy sitcom. Homeless people hanging out as they had nowhere to go. A few older people had been brought in separately and were in wheelchairs. As I listened I learned that they lived in a group home setting and had apparently fallen. One of them honestly looked like his biggest issue other than his fall was loneliness as he wanted to talk to anybody. Later in the evening there was a group of teenagers who looked like they were having a party in one area of the ER waiting room and they were very loud. At 3 am there were preschoolers running around with their parents’ phones watching cartoons with the volume high. Some of the people who were the patient were eating junk food. Generally you are told to not eat or drink anything in case you would need emergency surgery. One of them was eating flaming Cheetos. Some people finally gave up and went home to then go to Urgent Care or their own physician the next day. One barefoot I assume homeless woman who was about 5 months pregnant was in a wheelchair using her feet to keep moving around the room. Periodically she would she them to take her up to OB so she could sleep there. Her story kept changing from no she wasn’t in pain or vomiting to then she said she had been vomiting. When we finally got in to see a doctor and nurse they apologized for the long wait and said it was that way every night. This hospital was closest to the center of the city and to where a lot of homeless were. Often people would call an ambulance get transported to this hospital ER and then take off running because they were looking for a free ride. We found out my husband had a UTI in addition to Covid. Sadly this was the beginning of the end as he died five months later from long Covid and things it caused like pneumonia a softball size abscess etc n his small intestine blood clots in his leg and lung kidney failure etc. He had no taste or smell so would gag if he tried to eat. He was on IV antibiotics for over two months. He slowly faded away. It was so sad. That night in the ER was not neglect and the delay in being seen was an inconvenience but did not lead to his death. It depends on the acuity of the patient’s condition and how busy they already are. If it’s something relatively minor then going to an urgent care is probably a better option. If you’re in critical condition you don’t have to wait to be seen but once they stabilize you you might be hanging out for hours waiting for a bed in an inpatient unit and sometimes they don’t have a room to wait in so you get stuck on a gurney in a hallway. And you can be stuck sitting in the waiting area for a long time if you’re not actively dying on a busy day. Never go to the emergency without reading material and a charger for your phone. You might want to bring snacks too if you don’t think you’re going to need surgery. I suggest sending your family home if you don’t need them to wait with you and it looks like you’ll be waiting for hours. If youre actually sick or hurt ER wait times are actually pretty quick. Now when i say sick or hurt Im talking hey I got my gand cut off not Timmy twisted his ankle. As for Urgent care it depends on how busy a day it is buy they do triage so again depends on how sick or hurt you are. This varies by day time location and even at the hospital itself. Most hospitals will have ER waiting times. Heres a tip though Go to Urgent Care if you have a non emergency but something like stitches illness or have something not life threatening but requiring to be seen soon or on weekends. The cost will be a lot lower. If you show up having a heart attack at an ER in an ambulance you will pobably get seen right away compared to a broken pinky. We live in the country and sadly the nearest urgent care is 3035 minutes away whereas the ER is like 3 minutes away but they are a level 5 hospital which basically stablizes you and sends to a different hospital in a true emergency so we sometimes use it for stuff like bones or stitches. It totally depends on the time hospital and severity. If you go on a Friday night at 10pm for a minor issue you may end up waiting hours. If you have a severe case they’ll see to you quicker. I thought I broke my nose once and was there for probably 56 hours because it was low priority. A friend of mine had symptoms of a stroke and they didn’t even make us fill out the paperwork before seeing a doctor. We also have a bunch of walkin or urgent care clinics you can go to for these minor ailments something you need antibiotics for if you think you broke a bone but aren’t sure etc. If it’s not an emergency I would go there first. It varies so much. Weekend nights are the worst. I had a medial emergency as had to go to the ER back in 2022 on a Saturday night around 10pm. I waited a couple hours because they were bringing in several gunshot victims including one that just walked in. I got so bad that at some point I was just laying on the floor because I was doubled over in pain competing into a bag. I remember hearing someone yelling about he’s passing out on the floor he needs to go back.” I don’t remember much after that other than being on a gurney/bed in what felt like maybe a hallway? I was on morphine by that point and they took me into surgery maybe around 5am? Theres no standard time. You will be seen according to the urgency of your situation staff availability room availability and number of other patients. It could be 5 minutes it could be 6 hours. Depends on what your issue is. Most the Emergency Departments here have gone to a triage model so theyll assess you within 15 minutes of arrival a bit quicker if you come by ambulance but everyone gets triaged. If you need care immediately youll get it. If its something that can wait well youll probably wait sometimes for quite a while. We also have Urgent Care places aka Doc in a Box some associated with hospitals some independent where you can go for nonemergent care but dont want/arent able to go to a regular doctors appointment like wanting meds for a sinus infection or covid. There are telehealth options too. It depends on the severity of your situation. Head on collision? Probably immediately. Sore throat? Could be 12 hours or more. Use urgent care for anything you don’t think you’re going to die from. It depends what’s wrong with you and how busy it is. The worse the emergency the sooner you get seen. My kid needed a bunch of stitches and they got him a curtained off room and made sure he wasn’t going to bleed out but it was about 6 hours before he got stitches. While we were in the lobby a firefighter came running in holding kid who looked dead. I once waited 4 hours in a lobby with a broken arm. I travel to a hospital closer to the city but I usually dont wait long because Im a dialysis patient. Once they find out Im sick and on dialysis I usually get moved to the front of the line. Im actually not used to waiting for doctors. Once you become really sick the wait times are drastically cut and the waiting rooms are really fancy. My oncology office even has free valet parking. If you dont have a lifethreatening situation you can go to an Urgent Care. Ive gone to one about ten times and the longest I waited was about 30 minutes. They are usually covered by your insurance so that you only have a copay this varies but mine was $50 to $75. Going to an ER could cost you thousands of dollars. One hospital I know of has an Urgent Care right inside their ER. They evaluate your symptoms and then determine which would be better for you. It depends on where you are whats wrong and how busy the day is. Its entirely possible for you to go to the same hospital twice and get taken to a room and seen by a physician immediately once and have to spend 10+ hours in the waiting room the other time. It depends on the city the location of the hospital and whats going on in the area that night. Not to mention if theyre short staffed or if the lab is backed up. Best advice don’t go to the ER for minor issues find a primary physician if you can. It’s not so much about the waiting time as it is the bill. Trust me you don’t want a $1000+ bill for something that can cost you $200 or less with insurance at a PCP’s office. It varies widely. How busy the hospital is staffing what your condition is. They could toss you on a gurney and wheel you back as soon as you get in the door or you could be there all day. I have never waited that long at all. I would assume NYC is different. If you’re about to die you get seen fast. If not you’re there for a while. Depends on how severe your problem is. Totally depends on your location and even just a bit of random luck in terms of when you go in. Ive never been to an ER in NYC which I imagine just due to the population density is likely to be far busier than any ER Ive ever visited. My personal experiences were not extreme emergencies and the main wait was just filling out the paperwork. Maybe 15 minutes in the waiting room to be taken back to whatever needed to be done next? As a patient I went for a severely sprained ankle so they took me back to get an xray to make sure it wasnt broken. I also went with my nowhusband when he had some abdominal pain and they took him back to get an ultrasound after about 1520 minutes. My FIL had a whole situation where a rack of bottles at Aldi toppled and fell on him and he fell over and also someone else who was there but hes elderly and the other person was a young adult who wasnt hurt enough for a hospital he had to go to the ER in an ambulance and they did the paperwork during the ambulance ride and took him straight back as soon as they unloaded him for XRays. All of these happened at what would be a relatively slow period I think middle of the day on a week day in small town or suburban areas. I think the stereotype at least is that weekends at night are much busier with people getting drunk and injuring themselves doing silly stuff. Ive never had a wait. But I also use the ER the way youre supposed to. In emergencies. Very fast if you come via ambulance. Otherwise varies by state I have seen people wait 59 hours at times. It will vary wildly depending on your injury/illness location time of day day of the week and size of the hospital. Varies but I have encountered 7 hour waits yes. It can be hours or minutes depending on a number of different factors. That will depend on location Day local events and what you are going to the ER for. We have 2 kinds of systems quick care and ER. If you are bleeding and in a massive emergency you go to the ER and it’s the order of what is emergent. If you break an arm have the flu etc then you go to quick care and that is usually faster some even have you make a same day appointment so you know when to come in It will depend on why you’re there. If you’re bleeding out a few minutes. If you broke your toe 48 hours. Bad cold? You’ll be there til you die of old age. You don’t go to the emergency room unless you are having an emergency and then you’re triaged and seen in order of severity so if you are someone who *can* wait you’ll get jumped in line by people who *can’t* wait. If you’re not having an emergency you go to your regular doctor you’ll usually get an appointment same day if you’re sick or injured or will make an appointment months in advance for standard visits. If it’s after business hours you can go to an urgent care for the same thing and usually get seen same day. You’re more likely to have to wait a long time for a nonurgent specialist visit because those appointments are booked out many months in advance. I assume that’s true pretty much everywhere. Ive had wait times of a few minutes and a few hours at the same ED. It depends why youre there and why other people are there. Obviously I’m aware you have to pay in America but I’m assuming it’s worth it based on much quicker wait times and better service? Generally no. The only major disadvantage of NHS hospitals that Im aware of is the reliance on open wards instead of private rooms. Horrible. Ill never go to an ER again unless its a life or death emergency. Chicago suburbs here don’t think I’ve ever waited over 30 minutes but I only go with potentially serious problems. Concussion possible cardiac issues. For minor stuff we have urgent care places that are usually in a storefront. I’ve had a couple cuts glued closed at the urgent care. You shouldn’t go to the Emergency Room unless it’s an actual emergency. In which case you will go through triage and your wait will depend on how time sensitive your emergency is and how it compares to all the other emergencies there that night. If you go in with symptoms of a stroke or a heart attack you will be seen quickly. Sprained ankle not so much. And it could easily cost you $1000 or more WITH insurance. For a non emergency get a primary care doctor and call and make an appointment. How quickly you will be seen depends on the practice. I would expect to see them within maybe a day or two. If they refer me for tests that might take a week or two. Seeing a neurologist or a cardiologist might take months. ERs triage heavily. If they think you can wait youre staying at the back of that line until you get more serious agerelated complications. In the past few years I have spent times between 20 minutes and 9 hours waiting in an ER lobby to be seen. It really depends on where and when you go as well as whats wrong with you. Stomach pain? Youre last in line. You got shot or are having severe chest pain and shortness of breath? Youll get seen in minutes. Youll be triaged upon arrival to determine your priority. Ive spent an hour waiting to be seen for nonlifethreatening bleeding that required stitches and three hours to be checked for appendicitis but when I suspected acute liver failure dont mix alcohol and acetaminophen or a heart attack I was taken by ambulance and seen right away. It varies a lot but generally wait times are quite a bit shorter than any other country due to it being private. The quality of care heavily varies. It really depends on which doctor you see. Some are great and some don’t care at all. Emergency rooms are generally pretty quick it’s the stuff after that in which it gets a bit confusing. Are you having a stroke? Zero minutes. Do you want the weird mole youve had for 9 months looked at? Minimum 6 hours BTW Im an ER nurse. Weird mole was a real patient. In NYC area I have waited 67 hours. In South Carolina it was less than 2 hours. In Tulsa Oklahoma you’ll wait 1018 hrs but if you go out to a suburb it’s like an hour. Depends on how emergent you are lol. If youre bleeding everywhere and screaming bloody murder you might get help fairly quickly. When I broke my foot and had to go to the ER since urgent care was closed I was there for hours. I dont know about NHS but Canada uses their ER for everything. If you need to see a doctor for a sinus infection you will wait several hours I waited 8 until a nurse I knew started her shift and bumped me to the top of the queue. America has 2 ERs the actual emergency room and urgent care. Urgent care is where you go if you broke a bone are sick or have something else going on that doesnt need medical attention right now. The ER is where you go for a literal emergency and/or quick specialized care depending on if urgent care can help you or not. It varies. Between a few minutes and 4.5 hours. I would ask the NYC specific subreddit. Also if it’s not truly an emergency you can go to urgent care where there are appointments. I’ve never had to wait more than 30 minutes past my appointment time for urgent. The only downside is that sometimes urgent care will send you to the ER. When this happened I had to wait 4.5 hours at my local ER vomiting and in excruciating pain. I’m never going to that one again! Typically the wait is like an hour or 90 minutes at the ER. There is no uniform answer for this as it depends on the hospital. However no matter where you go it’s expensive. If you are literally dying they arent very long at all. If you are anything other than literally dying they are very long. Id imagine they are better or similar to what you are used to. Going to the ER for a nonlifethreatening injury or illness means several hours of waiting. Once at UCLA during corona.... it was awful honestly I just walked out. The city I line in has a next to zero wait time for the ER. But 20 minutes out in the next town you’ll be waiting for around 23 hours in a GOOD day. Ask a NYC page specifically and give a general location. They’re littered with hospitals and you’ll want to get accurate information for the area you’ll be moving to. Any emergency room you go to is going to triage. If there are a lot of people and your needs are comparatively not critical you will wait a long time. Emergency departments typically have doctors on call so if there were too many people in critical condition they will page doctors to come help but if it’s a bunch of people with minor injuries they will make them wait around until a doctor who was scheduled to work then is available to see you. Where I am they saved my leg the same day. Make sure you have medical insurance. Otherwise visiting an ER will cost anywhere between $500 and $3000. Urgent care sameday care for urgent not lifethreatening needs like sprains bad cuts that need stitches nonlife threatening allergic reaction plus a bunch of stuff over the weekend when your doctor’s office is closed earache strep test rash UTI high fever vomiting… will only cost $100500 per visit. In NYC it really depends on the neighborhood. One mile over the hospital could be great while the one nearest you sucks. If non life threatening 5+ hrs Are you walking in with a broken wrist or are you being carried in with gunshot wounds? If its the former you should be going to urgent care not an ED. ERs are costly and for emergencies. You should have a PCP primary care physician to cover routine health and walk in centers are faster and cheaper than an ER for things that need immediate care. Emergency rooms are for dire emergencies and their priority is to treat most severe cases first. So waits can be very long. Don’t plan to use an ER for routine or nonemergency medical needs. I’m not in NYC I’m in Southern California and it’s pretty standard here to wait 18 hours depending on what you go in for and when. My fiancés dad was seen immediately for sepsis but my stabilized broken arm was a 6 hour wait. My new onset migraine was about an hour wait and my cousins chronic diabetic foot is usually 23 hours they are ER regulars… Not sure why you would ask or plan to go to the ER though unless you really need it! Doctor waits for other stuff around here in SoCal is about the same as other countries. People like to act like we have fast and easy access to healthcare but most have HMOs that require referrals from PCPs and getting in to a PCP is a few months and getting a referral can be months as well. I taught at a vocational school and we found a volunteer who had epilepsy and would have had a generalized tonic clonic seizure at just about any moment if left untreated they were briefly losing consciousness for 16 seconds every 1520 seconds…. Them getting a referral to a neuro took months. I work at a cancer specialist center now and we have patients that go untreated for months because of insurance issues and physician referrals. Most patients could be caught early at stage 2 or so before they come to us at stage 3/4. Im in southeastern Pennsylvania. My husband was in the ER for a postsurgical issue about two weeks ago. He had a two hour wait time before seeing a doctor and that was in the middle of the night. I cant imagine how long the wait time is during the day. Definitely an NYC question on the wait times but as someone who has been dealing with American healthcare for the majority of my life rare illness left me a paraplegic at 5 do no expect U.S. healthcare to be better because you pay for it. It is decidedly not. Im sure some New Yorkers can fill you in on that too. Knowing them happily! But depending on the emergency even in rural areas wait times can be lengthy. For one thing a lot of people in our pay as you go system dont have money for health care and wait until theyre desperately ill to go to the hospital. Others use hospital ERs for things that arent life threatening because they have no insurance and no money. It can lead to crowded ERs anywhere in the country. At least in my city it very much depends on the hospital. One hospital may be notoriously busy and others less so. It also generally depends on how much of an emergency it actually is. Someone whos having a lifethreatening allergic reaction or a stroke is obviously going to be seen faster than someone who needs to find out if their ankle is broken. \*People dont like to be told the latter part but its true. The nurses are aware of certain symptoms that need to be addressed faster due to being potentially lifethreatening and they will get these people back faster. You would absolutely be incorrect that you get faster better medical care in the US because you pay for it. Our healthcare system is based on bureaucracy and greed. Quicker wait times and better service? 🤣 Thanks I needed a laugh today. But seriously medical care here is for the most part not a you get what you pay for situation. Youll wait 12 hours and have the pleasure of paying thousands of dollars for a doctor to speak with you for 5 minutes. Varies with population density socioeconomic status those without insurance tend to use ER for issues that aren’t necessarily ER issue time of day etc. I live in the Midwest. I have been in ER a fair few times. I will say I have the uncanny knack of getting really sick on weekends and/or holidays during blizzards and at night or a combo of all above. And I’m usually pretty darn sick so I get right in. Only time I really had to wait was kidney stone during COVID. Even then it was about an hour wait. Hours assuming youre not dying. People are saying well you should have gone to urgent care but urgent care does not necessarily have the right equipment. The last ER trip I made was for a blood clot urgent care can say yep thats got to be a blood clot but they didnt have an ultrasound machine. This saga started with a call to a nurse advice line who were able to say bound to be a blood clot youre going to need an ultrasound over the phone so the urgent care visit was entirely pointless. But we couldnt confirm whether the urgent care had an ultrasound so we went. I volunteered in NYC ERs so know something about how they work or two of them. If youre fairly far along in a pregnancy and theres some concern about injury to the fetus they might send you to labor and delivery even if youre not giving birth which will get you seen sooner than if you werent pregnant. Theyll try to get someone whos just experienced sexual assault into a room quickly even if theyre not seen quickly. One of the places I was was pretty tiny as it was sort of a satellite of the big hospital which meant their ER was both smaller but much less chaotic I believe any trauma went elsewhere basically. Youll need a more precise location than just NYC. Wait times vary from area time and weather. And as triage is a factor your injury/ailment is also an issue. Im in the US South and dont think Ive ever waited in an ER for over 30 minutes. But then I dont go to the ER for every little thing. Last time I went was a kidney stone and I never even sat down. ER varies like any other place. Specialists depend on region and specialty for example there are not many endocrinologists around here so you might be looking at 12 months for an appointment especially if its not extremely urgent. Primary care doctor appointments you can typically make same day or the next day. A job offer for your partner might well include a medical insurance package and you might be able to be added to the package but I think its only if you are married. Be sure to understand your options/coverage bc it fucking sucks in this country if you dont have insurance. Going to emergency room is an awful experience. I just wish hospitals would have someone who could circulate around the emergency room. Empathize with the long wait. Offer a snack a magazine or something to acknowledge your existence. Every time I visit an emergency room whether it was for myself or a friend or family member it is like you are invisible. anywhere from 30 minutes to 12+ hours depending on the city the time of day triage backlog etc. my recommendation would be to do everything you can to avoid the ER unless you abolustely must go there. Urgent Care is better cheaper faster and you can make an appointment. The ERs main goal is to patch you up and send you home. And its been overrun with more uninsured people who need basic care. Avoid at all costs. Depends on what you’re there for and what time. I’ve only gone a handful of times and each time I was seen right away it was just waiting for tests and to get me out. But I’ve never waited longer than 2 hours for everything then I leave Depends a lot on the day the location etc.. On trips to the ER I have had direct entry with no waiting and as long as 14 hours. The 14 hrs day was a lucky day where all of the stars aligned. Going to vary based on location day of the week triage etc. A hospital in a major city on a weekend is going to be a long wait..I’ve waited 30+ hours on a holiday weekend. We also have urgent care centers which are like inbetween a regular doctor and an ER. They aren’t usually open 24 hours but are open extended hours and you will be seen much more quickly than at an ER for things like sudden illnesses sprains/strains broken bones etc. Often they can stabilize a more serious issue and then transfer to a full service hospital directly to inpatient which skips the wait in the ER all together. But yeah plan to wait at the ER unless you are having a stroke or heart attack stopped breathing or have a head injury. It’s really going to be hospital to hospital. I worked in an ER in Chicago and got to know a lot of average wait times in hospitals around me. My hospital had an average of 34 hours. The huge downtown research hospital averaged 1012 hours even with a two floor ER. The lowincome ER that those without insurance went to had a wait time of 24 hours. Another was 67. It really matters where the hospital is located their patient demographic what kind of specialities they have and if they were a stroke center trauma center etc. The thing about the states is we also have places like an instacare” which you can go to as an alternative for less serious things like sinus/ear infections strep tests dehydration stitches— some even take xrays which can help a lot with wait times depending on what the need of care is. Now I only head to the ER for actual emergencies. You are looking at least an hour for a scheduled exam or sever hours for an er visit. Our healthcare system sucks and is quite frankly not worth what we pay. The wait times arent significantly different comparing experience in Japan Italy and France. ER/A&ampE wait times are a crapshoot between the variety of injuries number of cases and the facilitys staffing. The price is significantly different however. Exponentially more expensive in the US. I’m assuming it’s worth it based on much quicker wait times and better service hahahahahahahahhahahahaha laughs in American This is a terrible time to move here. it varies by insurance coverage as well. If you dont have insurance and your condition is not life or death you will sit for hours. they are hoping you will leave. that is why you always say you are having chest pains having a hard time breathing. Post 33 My fellow Americans would you welcome nuclear energy if it meant coal fueled plants where permanently closed? Author RandomPerson_7Post Text Would you risk nuclear engery if it cut out one of the largest source of CO2 emissions in the country? This subreddit is for civil discussion political threads are not exempt from this. As a reminder * Do not report comments because they disagree with your point of view. * Do not insult other users. Personal attacks are not permitted. * Do not use hate speech. You will be banned permanently. * Comments made with the intent to push an agenda push misinformation soapbox sealion or argue in bad faith are not acceptable. If you can’t discuss a topic in good faith and in a respectful manner do not comment. **Political disagreement does not constitute pushing an agenda.** If you see any comments that violate the rules **please report it and move on!** *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Asking if I would risk nuclear energy kind of demonstrates the whole problem right out the gate. In this country we consider nuclear energy a risk because someday some kind of catastrophic event might occur maybe. We dont consider the fossil fuel plant a risk even though burning all those dead dinosaurs is giving everyone nearby turbo cancer and its happening every single day. Yes I would happily support phasing in nuclear power to cover base load. It pains me as an American that the French have more nuclear power than we do. The FRENCH. The frogs are over there burning neutrons RIGHT NOW and were fetishizing coal. All that said youre definitely going to get a sample bias from asking Reddit. I work at a nuclear power plant. I’d definitely welcome more of them. Nuclear power is the way forward. I 100% endorse nuclear power but unfortunately for many people it has a stigma because of nuclear weapons not even the same kind of nuclear energy and because of accidents like Chernobyl and Fukushima. I used to run nuclear reactors on submarines for the Navy. I think you can guess how I feel about nuclear power… Yeah nuclear has been treated as a far worse energy source than it is for decades. Yes. I would take that deal. Coal harms people and the planet every single day. Nuclear is not perfect but it is cleaner. It gives us time to keep working on better options. There’s virtually zero risk to nuclear energy so absolutely yes. There’s even an elegant solution to the waste issue that we’ve just never implemented which is to build molten salt reactors that would generate additional energy from the waste products of a standard reactor while leaving behind stable isotopes. The future of energy should have a grid with a base load of nuclear with renewables like wind and solar stacked on top. We should absolutely replace every single coal and oil plant with nuclear. All aboard the nuclear power hype train. toot toot Yes I would. Id even support it over renewable energy currently due to extreme concerns over deep sea Cobalt dredging. Nuclear is best way forward until we can orbitally extract cobalt not that there shouldnt be renewables in use still better than coal. Yes. Nuclear Power is the 2nd safest energy source and the most reliable as well. According to Coal is the least safe and causes a lot of deaths that way exceeds Nuclear Power. Please give us more nuclear power. I don’t get why we want to be so coal dependent Yes. Coal ash is less regulated than nuclear waste but it can be more radioactive. Nuclear waste could be recycled as is done in France. Would you risk nuclear engery What are you on about? Nuclear is literally *Safer* than coal. Yes I dont even care if the coal plants get closed nuclear is just a far superior energy source lol. I know were not quite able to do fusion sustainably yet but even fission is way better than everything else we currently have. Good luck convincing all the outspoken facebook HOA moms to put a fission reactor in THEIR neighborhood though lmao. 🤣 Would I welcome the most efficient incredibly safe as long as humans dont do stupid things like stress test to irresponsible levels a la Chernobyl build the plant on a fault line a la Fukushima and amazingly cheap after initial high cost power generation? Yes. Yes I would. But do you know what Id rather have? A modern maintained electrical grid that includes multi reduncies and enough battery or other method storage so that transmission and retention is actually efficient. Using California as an example During mid day solar generated output is so incredibly enormous due to home solar and such that companies like PG&ampE are off loading to near by states instead of storing it...but come the evening when demand spikes that supply is gone and so brown outs still happen and prices increase. Easy yes. Yes. Nuclear is one of the safest and cleanest sources of energy https//ourworldindata.org/safestsourcesofenergy Its just scary to too many people including those with vested interest in fossil fuels. Yes. I grew up with a dad who worked at a nuclear power plant. So I was very pronuclear power. Then I moved to Fukushima Japan and lived there for about 4 years. I had a friend who was a security guard at the nuclear plant that had a meltdown in Fukushima. He went to work that day then the earthquake hit and the tsunami and everyone was sent directly to a shelter from work. Everything he owned his clothes photos computer house car everything. Gone forever. Anyway I met a lot of people who went through similar things and visited a deserted town that had part of it cleaned up after 10 years though most of it was blocked off. Anyway he still worked at the power plant for years afterwards getting lots of extra compensation for the exposure to radiation. Still even though I saw the devastation that nuclear meltdown can cause firsthand I still think that overall they are the safer option for the planet. Way more peoples lives are in danger from global warming overall so it makes sense to have nuclear power just maybe also listen to engineers and safety experts when they tell you the tsunami wall isnt high enough. With how well known our government is for their faithful and thorough upkeep of crucial infrastructure? Nah Im good. I want Nuclear power but I dont trust our current business or political leaders to lead safely on such a project. I dont trust some of the people commenting here who likely support these kinds of leaders. Cutting safety regulations and dumping waste hurting workers and the environment with only a fine being the usual punishment. i honestly think nuclear power is a great idea and newer types of plants are much safer than the older designs. i am a bit concerned about the recent executive order form trump regarding NRC policies so i am currently a bit hesitant until they clarify that a bit more. Yes 100% After watching my power bills rise steadily over 200% in the span of the last 6 years to cover the Vogel plant in Georgia that cost $36 Billion to build absolutely not. If we can figure out how to do it cost effectively sure. We already have plenty of nuclear power plants. We have a mixture of nuclear coal hydro wind and solar. I would like to see coal phased out over time but I would personally prefer it to be replaced with some from all the other categories rather than just nuclear power. Diversity is a good thing and will help disasterproof us. What do you mean if? You make it sound like it’s some sort of trade off. We need more nuclear energy period. Yes I would love for it to mean coal plants are permanently closed that is the goal but like…you’re basically asking Would you welcome a delicious meal from a three Michelin star chef if it meant you couldn’t eat the most unhealthy shit imaginable anymore?” Yes obviously why would you ask that? Nuclear energy is not really in the state where people think it is anymore. Nuclear plants arent going to give us Chernobyl. It is the way forward. The real problem would be how expensive it would be to build the plants themselves. We already have nuclear energy. About 1/3 of my state’s electricity comes from nuclear plants. My only concern with nuclear energy is what to do with the waste spent fuel rods etc. Sure. But its not going to happen anytime soon given the protracted nature of their approval and construction. Of course coal only accounts for 19% of all electricity production in this country today a 50% decline from a decade ago and the trend is continuing downward. As a result by the time the nuclear plants you tout come online its likely that coal will account for a tiny sliver of total electricity production. Yes with a caveat that all new construction have solar panels. Home enough to power at least the HVAC and commercial properties 50% of the projected energy use. Id be happy to have more nukes especially if it phases out coal. The time for burning coal has come and gone. But nukes are expensive. Really expensive. And renewables and natural gas combined cycle plants are much cheaper. So unless we see some sort of governmental incentives to build out nukes for baseload generation we wont see any new ones. I think we have 2 problems. The first is that every single nuclear plant is a different design. That means each plant costs so incredibly much because the additional engineering work and the inability to get any cost reductions from common designs. Secondly we don’t have a good method of handling the waste. We drilled a huge tunnel to store the waste many miles below ground but won’t let any plants ship it there. France definitely did it right by coming up with a standard design and putting the same plant all over the country. Kudos to them for that. One of the main reasons the US has not moved to nuclear energy is the cost of building the plants. Coal fired and natural gas plants cost considerably less than their nuclear counterparts. That being said over the long term nuclear energy generation costs considerably less. Now that China has started building nuclear plants using thorium rather than uranium I would like to see if thorium would be a better choice. According to news outlets thorium plants are safer and generate less unstable nuclear waste. At this time extracting thorium costs more than extracting uranium so it may be years before it becomes cost effective. It is the waste issue I worry about. Nuclear waste is toxic as hell and we still have no safe method of disposal save for burying it. For long term energy reliability the US should adopt using clean energy solar hydro wind as primary generation with fossil fuel and nuclear as backup and night time generation. We already do risk it. There’s a nuclear power plant—and a warning siren system fishing restriction special hazmat emergency disaster crew set up within miles of where I live. Nuclear isn’t specific enough. Sorry. What type? Where? Run and built by whom? Maintained how? And where is the spent fuel sand/material or contaminated water going to go? Solar wind water geothermal may be the answers in addition to varying forms and types of nuclear power generation. It can’t just be coal or nuclear with nothing else considered or invested in. Thats mostly how we got into this mess to begin with. The only problem with nuclear power is the profit incentive tied to it. Someone cuts corners at a coal plant you get a big fire with lots of bad smoke. Runoff will kill vegetation and pollute waterways but all of those things can be dealt with ARE dealt with every year. Someone cuts corners with nukes and the ground is dead for centuries. People within hundreds of miles have supercancer from fallout and contaminated ground water. The reason people are scared of nukes is because we know the companies are run by psychopaths who won’t care about nuclear contamination cause they don’t live there. Yes. But only combined with massive decentralized solar. I mean every box store warehouse school rooftops. Parking lots to the extent possible. And whatever storage systems that get developed. Why can’t we have solar and wind? 😔 Why so you guys can dump your nuclear waste in a desert? Hell no. Look up the Yucca Mountain disposal site. The reason it didn’t take off was because of all the small towns in the path of that nuclear waste. We didn’t want it coming through our towns by our SCHOOLS. Nuclear isn’t safe. Idgaf what stops have been put in place since Chernobyl it’ll never be safe to heat our homes with byproducts of radioactivity. I lived in Japan during the Fukushima debacle and I will never look at nuclear as safe again. Given the fact that I grew up next to Fermi probably not unless we have proven safety and its not located next to a major population center. Sure… but we’ve GOT TO figure out what to do with the waste. If we do that the doors to lowcarbon energy are thrown open. Coal’s already on its way out. We don’t need to waste money on nuclear reactors to get rid of it. So no I would not support that. I would rather spend the tens of billions we’d waste on reactors building grid storage instead. No. I’ve even made my peace with the operating risk of nuclear power plants but I absolutely cannot accept the concept of forever waste. It is more than mankind can handle. There is actually technology now to retrieve spent fuel rods and cause them to create more energy. Nuclear power technology has come a long way since Chernobyl and Three Mile Island I’m not opposed to nuclear power or even coal how many coal fire plants are in China India etc. and Russia? Haiti is also a unique place because off some of their coastlines it goes out about 100 feet and then it becomes bottomless and there is a technology to pump seawater that is super cold to the surface and then pump it back down to create electricity free for the entire island of Haiti and also export the excess in a great degree I dream of the day cold fusion is a reality Nuclear energy is perfectly safe. The only times it wasn’t was when people fucked around with the safety procedures Chernobyl and SL1 constructed it shoddily with bad safety procedures three mile island had a tsunami hit the plant after suffering a massive earthquake Fukushima and one was a temporary research facility reactor NRX. Compare that to the number of illnesses that incinerator fuel power stations and coal power stations the differences vast. The potential for a melt down is miniscule when you have proper safety procedures and protocols set and you have a system that is over engineered to prevent meltdowns. Nuclear science has also come a long way from when the first reactors went up in the 50s and 60s. There’s no more need for the traditional rods and coolant reactors when we now have honeycomb micro reactors that can add more power using less fuel while also preventing the entire system from overheating. It’s also easier to dispose of the nuclear waste as we have come a long way in really understanding nuclear decay in uranium and plutonium. I think nuclear reactors along with renewables such as solar and wind will go a long way from fossil fuels and overreliance on them for most things. Fossil fuels are also extremely energy inefficient as they’ve got a slightly better energy efficiency of an ICE. Only if they come up with a safe permanent way of disposing of the waste. No nuclear energy is more expensive and the cost gets passed down to the customer. There is also radioactive waste that is hard to dispose of and pollutes the environment. I’d rather continue to expand renewable energy. I’m sick of people using the argument of it being safe. It’s safe but only a slightly better alternative to coal. No Georgia just paid 40 billion for a plant and their electricity rates will be high forever. It’s not the cheapest energy and it’s really stupid to trust future humans to run it. It’s not such a big risk we have over 50 nuclear power plants operating Yeah nuclear has been treated as a far worse energy source than it is for decades. Yeah nuclear power should be the bridge to 100% clean energy. But look around. I grew up near a large 2GW coal power plant. I believe the radiation output from a coal plant is much greater than that from a nuclear plant in normal operation. Add to that the constant rail traffic delivering fuel and the climate changing CO2 output its a no brainier. Nuclear every time. Hell if they redeveloped the old coal station where I live to nuclear I wouldnt object although I would likely be in a very small minority. I dont trust my government to regulate things and to keep up wirh safety protocols and as bad as a coal plant is its not gonna ruin the area around it on the scale rhat a nuclier reactor would if shit hits the fan. Especially wirh the current administrations goal of reducing all regulations and safety protocols Given the current administrations hostility to regulation no. If i thought regulations would be solid and actually enforced yes. I would happily welcome it! I think theres just too much of a stigma for it to be more widely implemented No I want both This is already happening. But ultimately they don’t care what we think. The government is gonna do what makes themselves money. Especially these days Sure but coal is already being shut down. Id welcome more nuclear plants even without a carrot on a stick I want more nuclear. I want it more than everything except geothermal and existing hydro. I’d be willing to replace all natural gas oil coal bio and solar electrical plants for nuclear. Yes as long as there were other energy sources also considered like wind or solar. Nuclear power reactors have evolved with new designs. Smaller and safer. The waste could be easily managed. I would send it all to Nevada Yes!!! I would absolutely LOVE that. Nuclear is great for base generation. I welcome nuclear energy now. Especially with the more efficient generation of reactors We never should have stopped building nuclear power plants in the first place. We already have a nuclear plant just outside of Phoenix. Only plant in the world not near a source of fresh water. APS and SRP – the two electric providers in the area – just submitted a plan to build another reactor for it. Were also in the process of decommissioning all of our coal plants. All but two units are scheduled to shut down before 2032 the other two havent been scheduled yet. Quite a few have already been shut down. Personally? I am all for it. Our electricity is really stable in large part due to our use of nuclear and renewables. I worked at nuclear plants. One I worked at had 3 units. The cost went up astronomically from one to the next. They’re just incredibly expensive to build. Of course it would be really stupid to not do that. I would welcome nuclear energy regardless We already have nuclear energy plants in the US...and it is by far the best way to produce energy we currently have. I would have no problem with nuclear power. The closest nuclear power plant to us is an hour away. I also dont really think about it when were traveling and pass by a nuclear power plant. Yes 100% Nuclear power got a bad rap its the best source of clean energy we have right now. In theory yes. However I reality it seems that nuclear plants are incredibly expensive. I would I dont fear nuclear so sure. Most people have a poor understanding of rates of risk. We need more nuclear power plants. If they solved the long term waste storage issue. 100k years Coal Plants are on their way out with market pressure anyway slaying them faster than protesters ever could. To answer the OPs question probably not. It’s not that I don’t want a lot more nuclear plants. I do and have worked in nuclear for 20 years. It’s extremely safe compared to other power sources. The issue is that adding nuclear doesn’t mean there is no need for fossil fuel plants. Maybe it will in the future as storage matures. But at the moment the best course is movement to nuclear for most or all of our base load. But we would probably have to keep some fossil fuel peaker plants around for a while. Nuclear plants just aren’t very economical if not run at capacity. I really like solar/storage combined as a peaker solution the tech is there from the inverter and controller side for this but batteries are still very expensive and capacity is pretty limited. Yeah Yes! Yes. And lots of coal plants can be converted to nuclear power since they both use steam in the end. Yes. The problem with coal fired plants is they emit more than just CO2. Coal plants burn at 3000 degrees this vaporizes all of the heavy metals in the coal. While these metals only occur in trace amounts coal plants burn massive amounts of coal. Before it was shut down it burnt a barge load of coal an hour 24 barges a day. Because of this if you have a farm pond in southern Ohio ODNR recommends that you only eat one serving of fish per week due to heavy metal contamination. Coal is already on the way out being replaced by natural gas solar wind etc. We already have nuclear power but a lot of people are nervous about building new plants. Personally as long as its not being built in an area prone to natural disasters Im not worried about it but other people feel differently. I would be pro nuclear regardless of how many coal plants. Nuclear power is the safest and cleanest electricity we can creates . Yes there have been accidents. Chernobyl was a direct result of bureaucratic incompetence I’ve read up about it. Fukushima was a result of the Sunamai. A bit of an over simplification I don’t know much about 3 mile island. The no nukes set was about no nuclear weapons originally. It some how morphed into no nuclear power over time. I can remember asking a friend of my parents about nuclear powered submarines and power plants at a pretty young age. He worked in the submarine industry. He explained clearly to a 79 year old that there is no contamination of water or environment from nuclear powered submarines if maintained properly. Nuclear reactors are closed loop systems they don’t pollute nuclear waste into environment. In my opinion the media fomented distrust of nuclear along with some environmental groups. So we stopped building nuclei power plants really dumb in my opinion. Yes we survived the 7 mile reactor meltdown and we should step up our game Yes I would. The risks we face of not developing nuclear energy production are far worse than those it poses. I welcome it irrespective of what happens to coal plants. Yep I welcome nuclear energy right now. It’s the cleanest form of energy we have. Id love nuclear energy but we have to take it seriously. If they find people cutting corners people using the lowest bidder or overworking staff then it needs to equal jail time for the people upstairs. Three Mile Island Yes. I would. Bring on the nukes. I can actually see my local nuclear power plant from my town just like Bart Simpson so we are good. We have two plants within 40 minutes. They are both built on the water and surrounded by wetlands and nature preserves. Our local coal plant is set retired for 2028 unless Trump prevents it. I live about 20 minutes away from two different nuclear power plants. Another 30 minutes and I can be at a third nuclear power plant. I’ve already accepted nuclear power. Im already a fan of nuclear. You dont have to convince me even harder but if you insist. Sure but I would feel much better about it without team trump running things. Unfortunately when republicans run the government they have shown that grifting is way more important to them than protecting the American public. Why does the question have to be asked this way? I support nuclear power whether or not coalfuel plants were to be permanently closed. Your condition seems totally unnecessary to the question. Absolutely Yes. 100% even without your CO2 addendum. Fear mongers set our grid back decades. Yes. It’s as safe as other sources. I have been torn when it comes to nuclear. One side is it is cleaner and over all better. The trade off is its waste and the potential for things to go seriously wrong. America has issues with Tsunamis hurricanes and large tornadoes. Add in massive wildfires and these can all cause damage to the facilities. My state already has two and its not an issue. My electric already is from a nuclear power plant so Im fine with it. No. Im more worried about what we would do with all of the waste. Also 9 mile island. Post 34 Which cities do you think are the cities of the future? Which cities do you think are going to grow a lot and replace those decaying lower down? Those who will grow greatly over the next decades and become more important to the country San Antonio and Austin have already grown a great deal but I think they will continue. Maybe Columbus it was the second fastest growing city in the US last year More growth in the south specifically TX and FL Less growth in the Midwest and Northeast with a few exceptions like Chicago. I don’t see much changing unless more people suddenly move there in significant numbers. Expensive west coast cities and NYC will continue to stay relevant and grow” but not from any huge influxes. Just consistent because of their established dominance. While I wouldnt call it out to be a leader in growth but I was just at about and theres a generally quiet line of states thats at the top of the net workforce gained states. There were only 14 states whose workforce grew over 30k in the last year. Half of them are in the roughly western foothills of the Appalachians Ohio 3rd overall with 76k Michigan 49.3k Indiana 48.7k Tennessee 48.0k Alabama 43.6k Mississippi 36.3k and Kentucky 33.6k. These roughly highway 31 states are rarely spoken about as leaders except maybe Tennessee but the manufacturing corridor might actually be better posed for the future. Generally its rare to hear good things about Mississippi by far the highest percentage workforce growth in the US but with the education gains and the like it might actually turn things around. For cities in specific in the region theres a lot of known faces like Nashville Huntsville Columbus and Grand Rapids but theres some real potential sleepers in the mix like Detroit Birmingham Louisville or Cleveland thatve really done some notable things in the background while the rest of the nation wrote them off after the postmanufacturing downturns. They might surprise you if you actually ever go. Define decaying. Its a wellknown secret that Baltimore and Philadelphia are shrinking but I wouldnt say any cities are really poised to replace them and that its more likely that they just cycle back to being places where welloff people find neighborhoods that are upscaled or upscaling and the population might stabilize in 2 decades or so. Cities of the future though...realistically speaking Corpus Christi as a port city far out from other big Texas cities probably gives it a nod. Sacramento has seen steady growth over the decades and its already a seat of power for Americas richest state. Austin is probably already a city of the future and is notably the largest metro area without a Big 4 sports team. Phoenix has overtaken Austin in growth rate and will likely continue. Already the 5th largest city in the US the future is the sun belt. Austin Texas the most obvious answer Phoenix Arizona Raleigh North Carolina Prosper Texas McKinney Texas many other DFW suburbs Atlanta Georgia I’d say as of late at the rate they’ve got companies and people moving to them Austin Houston and Dallas believe it or not. Especially Austin. That city’s exploded. In the very long term it’s the upper Midwest because climate change. In the year 2500 Duluth will be 5million What cities are decaying? Going to go against the grain Chicago. Large city near massive body of fresh water. Has space to absorb a large population increase. Central to basically everything. I think people are underestimating the effects of climate change on California Texas Arizona Florida George and the Carolinas. Its going to break at some point and people will move. I think Raleigh will continue to grow. A lot of Midwestern cities are also either currently coming back or have recently improved iirc crime in Chicago is way down but rent is still pretty cheap compared to other cities of that caliber. As long as they find money for the CTA things should continue getting better. Minneapolis is also doing well rent growth is low and they’re getting new light rail Minneapolis/St. Paul Depends on how much immigration there is. If it does little more than compensate for our low birthrate then the cities of the present will be the cities of the future much like Europe. If our population continues to grow I would imagine there will be comebacks In some of the rustbelt cities where previous decay makes room for future flexibility. Lots of cheap housing less NIMBYism Gonna depend entirely on how bad the climate crisis gets and how that plays out in the insurance markets. Generally people don’t make well considered long term decisions about where to live they go for jobs and low costs other considerations usually come well behind those two. Right now that has meant places like Florida and Texas which have low costs and good job markets but both places are already seeing the insurance market drive up costs fast particularly Florida because insurance companies are always taking the long view. Southern California is another example the constant wildfires are driving up an already inflated housing market. So instead of asking an American you should ask State Farm lol Rust Belt cities. Everyone keeps saying the sun belt but within a couple of decades climate change is going to put a damper on that. Detroit Buffalo Rochester Syracuse Cleveland Milwaukee Chicago etc.. are well poised for the future For me we are living the peak of sunbelt cities but I think this is going to be reverse in about 20 years due to the climate change and more frequent wildfires and hurricanes and ofc the unbearable summer. A bunch of rust belt cities has started a resurrection from the rust so i think a bunch of cities by the great lakes gonna start having their moments in a few years. Although if they keep having a good and cooperative planning the piedmond AtlantaRaleigh and Texas triangle Dallas Houston Austin San Antonio can start having more relevance Northwest Arkansas Youre never going to replace the lower end it will always bee there no matter how much positive growth a city has and the bigger the city the larger the lower end will be Some people say Charlotte is the gateway to Gastonia I hope Charlotte can be as great as GasTown one day Probably any cities the next *The Magnificent Seven* are based in in. Charlotte. The high density growth in the city limits is nothing short of astounding. It has the corporate support with 10 Fortune 500 companies headquartered in the area. It has a hub airport and unlike some of its peer cities it’s making an effort to build more rail transit. Denver The triangle between Nashville Charlotte and Charleston WV. Basically anything in between there is going to continue to expand with the cheaper housing access to beautiful mountains decent colleges and ability to get to the eastern US. West Virginia has been a sleeping giant of a state for 300 years. Someday they will become a powerhouse of a state The ones with a lot of room around them God damn it. I moved to Austin a year ago and I’m moving back to Nashville in a few months. Should I stay in Austin? Ask me a week from now and Ill give you a list. I’d say it depends. People are mentioning the the Sun belt city’s a lot but besides Austin and Atlanta and Miami most are very sprawled and car centric. I think we should also be considering Walkability Transit entertainment Weather all sorts of things Detroit Bentonville I think Jacksonville Florida is just gonna keep growing. Since COVID it’s been expanding like I’ve never seen before. I think house/property prices being less expensive than other southern cities and the fact that Florida has no state tax are big draws for a lot of companies based in the south and people who are working remotely. Intermountain west cities are going to be getting more government offices in the future as the unworkable situation of all of the land the federal government controls being a thousand miles from the capitol becomes a bigger flashpoint. Denver Albuquerque Laramie a few in Montana Boise are going to be power hubs sooner than later. San Angeles Upper Midwest and inland New England will likely be least impacted by climate change. The places that have been growing will continue to grow maybe an exception for the FL peninsula. There is a lot of chatter about climate refugees and mass migration to the Great Lakes area. We shall see but IMO it will not happen to any significant degree. The US population as a whole is aging and the growth rate is slowing. If immigration ended tomorrow the US population would start declining the next day. A lot of movement has been driven by the retirement of the huge Boomer cohort and COVID and those drivers are not likely to repeat themselves. Las Vegas and Phoenix. Both have been diversifying very quickly and there is lots of development in both cities. I think their proximity to each other and to California will influence rapid growth. Lebanon Indiana. Not kidding. Literally impossible to tell. There are so many factors involved. You have no idea what industry will look like 20 years from now what will be trendy etc. Basically if you could predict which cities would be popular you could become wildly rich buying/selling real estate. Professionals do this for a living and even they dont always get it right. In general people are moving out of places like California and NYC and into places like Texas and Florida. Will that continue? No idea. Detroit is so destroyed that it can easily be replaced with a futuristic utopia with all the infrastructure it already has. Id pick Huntsville AL as a strong contender. Its experienced rapid growth is a tech hub and leader in rocketry science. Its grown 25% in the last decade and isnt showing signs of slowing down. Researchers there just invented a way to double the speed of space travel using liquid uranium. If Trump actually goes through with his golden dome project unlikely but hey Huntsville would play a major role in that. Will be interesting to see how that plays out. Oh also of course the Redstone Aresnal is there. Manhattan NYC Denver. Everything else will be underwater Detroit Post 35 Why isnt ground pork used as extensively as ground beef in America? I recently made pork burgers using ground pork for some friends and most of them said this was the first pork burger of their lives. And I realized that hmmm.. Even tho Americans eat a lot of pork very little of it is in the ground form or patty form. And I cant figure out why that is. Why is beef so much more common in ground form as opposed to pork? Edit Thank you for the fascinating variety of thoughts and theories and explanations. The average person will probably tell you beef tastes better. Beef is quite a lot more expensive in Europe and Asia. However because the US had areas like Kansas that JUST produced beef beef in the US was reasonably cheap. So immigrant groups like Italians for example dropped pork in a lot of their dishes and used beef instead. Even the Germans dropped pork and gave America the Hamburger. In short beef is cheaper in the US than almost anywhere else on the planet and the majority of people think its tastier than pork. We still eat plenty of pork though but overall we prefer beef. I have a good example local to me where the Alsatian and German immigrants made their own version of Mett by using beef and adding jalapenos cheese and onions. Its so freaking delicious. Sausage patty. An incognito pork burger. Pork can be used in certain cases. When I make lasagna I follow the ground pork veal and beef recipe for example. Overall though its very greasy if not handled correctly and the amount of fat might not work well for certain applications. It never hurts to mix it with other meats though depending on what youre cooking. Asian dishes use more pork than American. Its used in almost every filling for egg roll dumpling xiu mai whatever. And also used for what American might call meatloaf Pigs are a much smaller animal than beef cattle. So the yield is far less per animal. Less trim after parting for subprimals. For comparison a whole boneless pork loin is about 30inches and that includes the pork equivalent striploin and ribeye together. While we do produce a fuckload of pork in the US meat processors have to decide which subprimals are going to become sausage because the trim isnt there once the round is designated for ham the bellly is sold for bacon the loin will packed for wholesale. As a result most pork sausage in the US is pork shoulder. Generally ground pork is made into some type of sausage. Whether loose or with casing. Generally when Ive seen unseasoned ground pork its when you order a half or whole hog. You can find it but its not always available in stores from my experience. I do occasionally make chili with 1 lb ground hamburger and pork each. I know a number of people that eat beef but not pork. I don’t know anyone that eats pork but not beef I know those people exist but I don’t think they are that common in the US. When people in the US are looking for substitutes for ground beef they are typically looking for something leaner like turkey or want something vegetarian. We tend to eat more pulled pork than ground pork in my area. Sausage biscuits! Ground beef just tastes better. What do you call a cow with two legs? Lean beef. What do you call a cow with no legs? Ground beef. I love to use ground pork when I make pot stickers. It is also good when added to ground beef for meatloaf or homemade chili. However ground pork can be very hard to find. It just isnt carried or stocked well at most grocery stores in my area. My local grocery store carries rows of ground beef 85/15 organic grass fed ground beef 90/10 organic grass fed ground beef 73/27 80/20 80/20 Angus ground beef chuck 90/10 Angus ground beef sirloin 93/7 92% lean all natural etc.... Their ground pork comes in only one variety of maybe 8 packages if that. I am in the Midwest but it was like that when I lived on the west coast too. I have had pork burgers all my life. They are called sausage patty on a biscuit. People usually add spices when they grind pork then call it sausage. Technically ground beef is beef sausage or if you put it in a casing hot dogs. The big beef industry gets a lot of subsidies. But ground pork is more common in meatballs lasagna or in dips. It’s uncommon in burger shape. Also there is a substantial Jewish population Breakfast sausage patties in the US are usually made with ground pork but are flavored with strong seasonings herbs spices and usually slightly sweetened. Most Americans eat these on a somewhat frequent basis. I think ground pork is best wellseasoned. Its certainly yummy in Chinese dumplings. Americans sometimes include it in meatloaf but usually as part of a meat loaf meat mix of ground beef ground pork and sometimes also ground veal. I never had a ground pork burger barely seasoned until I moved to the Czech Republic. I wasnt fond of it. Perhaps it was just that I was unaccustomed to eating it so plain. Or a slight difference in the taste of Czech pork products versus American. As for the latter I have noticed a difference. Its greasy and you have to cook it through. You cant do medium rare. *very little of it is in the ground form or patty form.* Maybe it’s a location thing. It’s always there in my local supermarkets. There’s more ground beef but people do use it for meatloaf and other things. We eat a lot of pork patties.. its called sausage pattys and they taste great We raise a bunch of our own food including a set of feeders hogs every 2 year on our Appalachian farm. We have a hog killin come early winter or late fall. I finish them on fermented corn to get good marbling on my ham steaks like beef steaks. The wife mixes half pork half beef for most ground. Most recipes that do use ground pork can easily be adapted to breakfast or Italian sausage which are widely available and fairly inexpensive. Additionally the primal cuts of a steer used for ground beef round chuck occasionally sirloin arent really used in a lot of other beef dishes because theyre tough to eat asis. Not so for pork. I tried making pork burgers and they were too tough. I much prefer a beef or especially lamb burger. I do like some good ground sausage though Grease We eat *significantly* more ground pork sausage at my house. I love beef but the ground sausage just goes so well with so many things. I really only buy ground beef for meatloaf and even then I sometimes combine. Probably a remnant of history and tradition. We are still taught that pork requires more careful preparation to be fully cooked and not potentially harmful if eaten. Older generations were closer to farming life and often raised pigs and were aware of risks and probably knew people who were not careful of prepping pork in best practice and got sick. Pigs were basically a way to convert/recycle scraps garbage into edible protein. I think just the awareness of extra steps and extra risk in prep just made pork not as versatile an ingredient and it just didnt wind up in as many recipes. I find fully cooked ground pork to be blander and less moist and more chewy than other ground meats overall. I think this one of reasons Asian cooking takes advantage of these qualities amending ground pork with spices fats vegetables and what not as fillings in various dumplings. The inherent taste neutrality of pork is pretty apparent when you think of all the ways we prep it with heavy seasoning ham sugar salt bacon salt smoke sausage smoke herbs spices ribs and pulled pork heavily spiced sauces and marinades and pork chops gravies pan sauces applesauce cranberry sauce are a seen as necessary sides. It lacks a strong profile compared to beef lamb or turkey even. Theres a steamed pork preparation I make using ground pork Cantonese but the recipe requires adding eggs for texture and moisture and chopped fermented vegetables for flavor. A hamburger can taste pretty good on its own a ground pork patty not so much. Pork is more flavorneutral than beef which lends itself better to certain applications. Pork makes a wonderful sausage of all different sorts as it lends itself to take on the flavor of the spices better. Pork makes far superior bacon due to texture and flavor both melding well with the bacon smoking process. Pork makes a great barbecue arguably better than beef with the exception of beef brisket which is the bomb. Beef has a bolder natural taste than pork which makes it ideal for burgers or steaks. Pretty much everyone prefers steak over pork chops because the natural flavor of beef is just bolder and better. But if youre going with bacon or sausages pork is the key the beef versions of these products are greatly inferior. Because people here are weirdly obsessed with beef. Ive lived here all my life and I dont get it either. Pork is better and also cheaper but also I prefer just about any red AND white meat over beef. Beef is overpriced and not that great. Ill take lamb or even goat meat if I can find it Yall need to try some Johnsonville Bratburgers once in your life. I would assume that number one reason is that pork burgers dont taste as good as beef burgers. Breakfast sausage is the only regularly used ground pork that Im aware of. It exists out there just not super common to see at a grocery store. Im not sure why that might be though. My best guess is that pork is often seen as a less clean meat since it comes from pigs which are unfairly considered filthy animals. And to continue on that ground meats are often seen as lower quality. At a quality butcher youre getting what they say is in it but any unscrupulous business could sneak unpleasing things into the ground meat. Im just rambling because Im up late. I use ground pork pretty often. I usually mix it with my ground beef for a different flavor. Another thing my family loves is when I make patties and then shake and bake pork on them. Bake them in the oven. Nice crispy pork patties. Ground pork is much more lean and tends to get dry without adding fat or something ground beef doesnt need that kind of elevation. Also ground pork gets used at industrial scale in sausage Ground pork is widely used in Asian foods but not in common American dishes. Its actually hard to find locally for me most grocery stores dont even sell it other than preseasoned as breakfast or Italian sausage. I have to go to Asian markets to find it reliably even our butcher doesnt regularly have it in the case. I think its mostly just unfamiliar to most Americans and were still living with the hangover of the mid20thc. panic over undercooked pork having parasites trichinosis which led to most people in the 3070 age range give or take being subjected to meals of grossly *overcooked* pork and thus thinking it is dry by nature. I cook pork all the time but I was raised thinking it was no good because literally everyone cooked it until it was dry as shoe leather in the 1970s. Anything other than beef is not a burger. If I asked for a burger and got pork Id be on the local news. If I remember correctly there use to be certain diseases from exclusively pork. Trichanosis? That along with religious practices it wasn’t viewed in a good light. Then they had a whole campaign of the other white meat” which were pork loin etc. But we all kinda view pork as breakfast sausage full of fat. If the ground looked like ground turkey we’d eat it. They don’t even offer it. Beef is expensive and needs a lot of land. we have money and land. I grind my own pork for Italian sausage burgers. I use hot Italian sausage meat in my Bolognese instead of hamburger. I make French Canadian tourtiere myself and buy it frozen frequently. On its own we use ground pork for breakfast sausage a lot. And as a country that’s popular especially in the south and Midwest. And sausage gravy for biscuits and gravy goes along with that. Otherwise we use it in mixes with other ground meats for things like meatballs or whatnot. Sausages are usually ground pork. Pork burgers arent a thing because pork is blander than beef and fattier than turkey. I like it mixed with other meats or in stuff like egg rolls. Pork Sloppy Joes also go pretty hard. Its alright mixed with beef but pork just doesnt taste as good as beef does Ground pork is delicious. I use it all of the time! Is it used less in America? I wasn’t aware. I put it in every meatloaf and meatball I make. If it’s not in there when someone else cooks I know! It makes a difference. I make a few pasta dishes with ground pork and loose pork sausage. Standard ground pork I see at the average grocery store Kroger is much fattier than any ground beef I’ve seen. Not sure of the percentage but I’m guessing 70/30? Almost every time Ive consumed ground pork its been in the form of some sort of sausage. In that sense its used quite a bit but as far as making something like a burger out of chopped pork and eating it like you would a hamburger. I dont think Ive ever seen anyone do that. On the flip side ham and bacon are used quite a bit. A roast ham is a common holiday entree and bacon goes on practically everything from breakfast to baked potatoes to hamburgers etc I see plain ground pork at the grocery store so somebodys obviously doing something with it Pork goes bad quicker. And ground beef/pork/any meat goes bad quicker than unground. I can buy fresh ground beef and it can sit in my fridge for several days before I use it or freeze it. Not so much with pork. I dont usually buy ground pork unground sure but if I did it would be for some specific immediate use. Beef is more like Oh hey we need to use this hamburger in the fridge. Burgers/Bolognese/Lasagna for dinner? I like pork meatballs or 50/50 pork and beef. Thats a flat sausage I live in the porkproducing Midwest. Its very common here. We have pork burgers about as often as beef burgers. The freezer is stocked with almost as much ground pork as ground beef. Actually probably more since we have pounds of regular pork sage sausage country sausage regular sausage pork burgers. With beef we just have a couple lean/fat mix differences and ready made patties. Mixing them halfhalf for things is also great. Ground pork is also usually cheaper than beef often about half the price here at least. Like the butchers whole hog price is $2.99 I think and last I looked a side of beef is like $4.99 or something but that of course includes some steaks and such. I will always remember my 2yr old calling a sausage patty a piggy cookie”. I mean it’s not really wrong. Ground pork gets mixed into anything sausage” or anything I need to add more fat too. Like venison is super lean so half pork half venison sausage for the lasagna I made last night. Ground pork is really common and used pretty commonly but it depends on your area and your household as well. My local meat market mages home made great and with the left over mix always used to make brat patties. If you are in a very big pork industry area its more common. I often wonder this myself because it’s delicious. Personally I buy ground pork and ground turkey more often than I buy ground beef. But I am not a typical American when it comes to my cooking. It’s used a lot in breakfast labeled as sausage patties. I have used plain ground pork in recipes that called for ground beef. I often use a mix of ground beef and ground pork. Often ground pork is bratwurst or breakfast sausage form when people buy it. It probably is just not in obvious ways like making pork burgers like you did. Ground pork is used a lot if you really think about it. The most obvious is loose pork sausage. But its also used to make traditional meatballs and sometimes meatloaf its used to make hot dogs and other sausages meat snack sticks. I cook with ground pork a lot because I can get it for roughly $1.50/lbs. Pork burgers have a different consistency. Not like ground beef. Good but you gotta have the pork that’s the flavor. No idea. Near where I went to grad school Bowling Green OH a butcher shop came up with what is essentially a whole hog pork hamburger called the but it didnt catch on outside the area. Although there is a lot to be said about good uses for pork the answer to your core question is most people like the taste texture and consistency of beef more than pork. I use ground pork with beef for meatloaf meatballs keema aloo etc. Have never tried a pork burger. May do that this weekend. I like to mix ground beef and ground pork when making burgers. Brat patties are amazing Preference. People just prefer hamburgers made with all beef. For things like meatballs and pasta they will add pork to the mixture though. I’d say it’s used pretty prominently. Not as much as ground beef sure but it’s pretty commonly used. As for why that gap exists there’s probably a multitude of reasons. While both are fairly large the beef industry has always been bigger than the pork industry. The beef industry also does far more advertising than the pork industry where’s the beef? Got beef? Beef it’s what’s for dinner etc. and lobbies harder in DC. I’m sure there are many other reasons as well those just come to mind first. Ground pork gets spices added to it and turned into sausage. Few American dishes call for unseasoned ground pork directly Also fat content is a biggie because ground meats are generally made from whatever scraps are left over after butchering out the choice cuts. The pork that’s left to grind is generally from extremely fatty parts of the carcass that won’t sell as such. Sometimes ground pork will be mixed with ground venison for deer burgers because the extra fat is necessary for the patties to hold together. Many butcher shops who will process deer will add the pork as part of the service. Ground pork is for sausage not burgers. I like how so many people are giving reasons of why they dont use ground pork but really the main reason is they dont know what to cook with it. Pork is king in many Asian countries and you just need to look for some inspiration. I recently opened a pack of ground pork and blood spurted everywhere. Ill stick with beef. Pork has higher fat content and you have to cook it longer. Also culture and habits dictate what people buy. The luxurious nature of consuming beef over other options. I use ground pork for meatloaf and meatballs with ground beef and turkey often. I dont buy ground beef. The only meal Id use it for us spaghetti and fresh sausage tastes better. The parts of a pig you would grind are more valuable as other cuts and products and those products are more in demand. Pork shoulder hams sausage for the trim. And relatively more of our pork industry is still settled on leaner younger the other white meat style hogs meant for producing whole muscle cuts. Rather than lard hogs meant for fat sausage and ground meat. Where as with cattle a lot of the stuff you would grind. Is more valuable as ground beef and the ground beef moved better. Primarily round and some other very lean cuts. And theres a lot more it on a carcass. Trim get ground into those lean cuts to up the fat content and it sells for a better price. Since we raise a lot of cattle theres a *lot* of ground beef available. Consequently ground pork is typically more expensive than ground beef most of the time. Beef is fucking better Pork needs to be cooked well done because of trichinosis the fact pigs will eat anything and the scariest tape worm on the planet. We do we just have a tendency to sell anything made with ground pork as being sausage based. A lot of people believe that pork is dirty.” I know of a lot of people who don’t eat hoofed animals” and won’t eat pork especially more conservative Christian denominations. I used to see 50/50 ground pork/beef at the supermarket more often years ago but al post never see it now. I would use it for meatballs or meatloaf sometimes. But haven’t thought about it for years Big Cattle spends a lot of money to keep people eating beef. For me personally I’m not a fan of pork so I don’t eat it. I do eat beef but I mostly eat chicken. It is for breakfast. Ground pork is the primary ingredient for sausage patties. We really like beef burgers I add ground pork to a lot of things but when I make stuff for pot luck it’s always 100% beef. Because American raised pork is a trash food. Seriously look at videos on how they feed these things…mostly corn feed plastic bag and all. Their omega 36 ratio is incredibly bad their fat starts to melt at room temperature. because it tastes better. you have not uncovered any secret. weve all had sausage patty. I always go about 7030 beef to pork ratio when making meatballs. I add egg jalapeño celery onion breadcrumbs and garlic. The last of the batch gets pressed into my hamburger press then goes in the freezer to be cooked on my electric grill. A beef and pork mixture is great tasting. Some Americans seem to view beef as the ultimate meat. Personally I have some dishes I make with ground turkey and some I make with ground pork. They have different tastes and should be treated as their own thing rather than just as a beef substitute. A large part of the American population dont eat pork. Im an old. Just as there are now people that dont eat red meat but still ear chicken or fish it used to be that a lot of people are all meat but not pork. There are swaths of evangelicals that dont eat pork. Muslims dont eat pork. Jewish people dont eat pork. People that dont eat red meat usually dont eat pork. Vegetarians and vegans dont eat pork. I find it easier to buy ground lamb than it is to buy ground pork. Its possible it has something to do with trichinosis being harder to inspect for in raw ground pork. It’s used plenty by people who like to and can cook. You’ve likely had meatballs with ground pork in them. I think in general Americans just don’t seek it out. People aren’t adventurous. Meatloaf mix is beef pork and veal the beef gives flavor the veal gives texture and the pork gives fat. Really good combo to cook with Pork is already a fairly cheap meat. Beef isnt. There if a far more drastic reduction in price by grinding offcuts into ground beef than grinding pork. Pork is used pretty commonly. It is associated mostly with breakfast in sausage patties or sausage gravy but it is used in other dishes as well . I use ground pork all the time in my meat sauce and dumplings. Pork burgers are for morning burgers. Bread pork patty egg cheese. Aka Sausage McMuffin. I prefer it. Ground pork doesnt have a consistently good flavor to it. It works best in things like meatloaf or meatballs mixed with other ground meats sausage or something heavily seasoned so it can take on the flavors of what its mixed with. Its also often more expensive than ground beef at least where I live. We associate beef with burgers. Its a cultural adaptation. Kind of like ordering schnitzel in Germany. Or fish and chips in England. All the pigs are in office Size of animal may play a factor. Cows are much larger than pigs so theres more meat left over to grind after creating steaks and chops and shoulders and such. However I buy ground pork all the time. Theres a roll and a half of it in my fridge right now. Its otherwise known as sausage. Its just not in links that look like hot dogs. I often use ground sausage to make patties that then become breakfast sandwiches. Put a cooked sausage patty between two halves of an English muffin add some cheese maybe add a scrambled egg. Same as any fast food sandwich place but cheaper and sometimes better too. ground pork is reserved for the finest cuisine biscuits and gravy. its a breakfast staple. very common I used ground pork in a chili contest. It was scored double blind and I came in dead last. I used the same recipe the next year with beef and I came in 3rd. The richness of pork is too much for me oftentimes whereas beef can be milder and leaner. Not a fan of sausage overall aside from occasional sausage gravy or smoked sausage we eat bacon about once a month and pulled pork from a restaurant maybe a couple times a year. I don’t think my spouse grew up eating any pork beyond bacon and I only had typical breakfast sausage or bacon and the occasional pork chop. Ham is the exception that’s eaten regularly. Edit pork is seen as more dangerous to cook people used to cook it until it was dry and way overdone now that’s going away a bit but that history is still there. Our grandparents would fall over at the thought of eating a pork chop that was pink that would have been seen as a real risk not knowing the temperature was safe. Trichinosis was/is a major fear. Because it doesn’t taste as good as beef. Perhaps it’s the US’s large Jewish population? Raw ground pork has a shorter shelf life than ground beef. Thats why most of it gets turned into some type of sausage to extend its shelf life. I will use ground pork for tacos stir fries nachos pastas etc but not for a burger. It never has enough fat. Most meatballs use ground beef and ground pork. Pigs have always been considered rightly or wrongly as filthy animals. Some religions refuse to eat pork. Most of the Western religions are okay with beef. I use ground pork at least as often as I use ground beef. Cultural convention. Ground pork = sausage in most cases so people expect the seasonings to go accordingly. I honestly like cooking with ground pork but 90% of the time Im emptying it out of sausage casings. I use a ton of ground pork. But its primarily in Asian recipes. Post 36 How much would it cost to cross the US in a roadtrip? So imagine you are at some town beach in California and wanna travel to the other shore lets say to New York City. You also wanna visit every interesting place on your way you wanna enjoy the trip so just booking a direct flight to NYC isnt an option. Idk if you can cross the US on a boat so thats probably also off the table. Therefore the only remaining way is to travel by land. A car a trailer maybe even just a bike any mean of land transportation. How much would it cost and how many time will it take on average? EDIT By every interesting place I actually mean places that many travellers usually visit e.g. Yellowstone Theres a bunch of other questions youd need to answer before you can come up with a number. How far of a detour is still considered on the way? Is an extra 4 hours of drive time considered on the way how about 8? What level of lodging is acceptable? Are you willing to stay in any old seedy motel on the side of the road or only proper hotels? Are you ok with sleeping in the back seat of your car? How many people are going and can you rotate out drivers? How long is any given driver ok with driving in a single day? Whats the mileage of your car? What time of year is it? Do you need to account for a mountain pass being snowed out? Where exactly are you starting in CA? Whats on the way will vary if you are going to start in Socal or Norcal How long do you plan to spend at a given attraction like you could spend a full day at the grand canyon at least. No one can answer this question for you. It depends on how you travel where you stay what attractions you want to see how long you want it to take what kind of food you want to eat and much more. Sketch out what you want to do and grab a calculator. You can travel across the **USA from LA to NYC via Amtrak** you would need to travel via either Chicago or New Orleans. You can do it for around $300 just for the train ticket in coach or under $2k in a private sleeper. Thats not going to include visiting interesting places but it will allow you to see quite a bit of the country from the train without having to worry about driving. Of course you could break up the journey with stops along the way. I just wanted to throw out the Amtrak option as nobody else has suggested that. Every interesting place” in a country the size of Europe is going to be rather time consuming. Every interesting place? Depending on your definition and your route months and tens of thousands of dollars. If you just want to get from coast to coast? A few days Also by bike is possible but not easy at all. just in case you are unaware Los Angeles to NYC is the same distance as St Petersburg to Lisbon with several large mountain ranges and rivers in the way. Could be anywhere from a few thousand to tens of thousands depending on what you want to do and how. There’s a lot to unpack here. Coast to coast is covering an entire continent and you’ve specified that you want to visit ‘interesting places’. That’s gonna be real subjective and depend on your interest. Some people happen to like the vast stretches of nothingness and unique cloud formations of the Great Plains but I suspect a lot of other people would say there’s nothing of value to check out there too. Car is gonna be the most reasonable option as our isn’t completed yet. Technically possible to cross on bike but dear lord are you gonna struggle to get through the plains the heat of the desert or the swamps of the southeast. God help you if you decide to do this in the winter too as you might get snowed in if you’re crossing the plains. Boats aren’t gonna work either our river transit system is arguably the best in the world with its size but it’s really only viable in the east. The Colorado River is an unnavigable stream once you get into Colorado so that option is out. So we’ve got two options left cars and trains. Renting a car by the day can be expensive and gas prices don’t help either. While we get the flexibility to check out more interesting spots off the main interstate routes you specified the cheapest option. That’s the train. And you aren’t gonna be booking a … Looks like ~$400 for the cheapest cross country route. You’d go from LA to Chicago and then transfer to a train that goes to NYC. This whole journey would take 2+ days of exclusively travel. Though you get to explore Chicago on your layover which is a city filled with stuff to do. Somewhere between 4 days + $500 and the rest of your life + all of your money California is huge and takes up most of the west coast so you have to narrow your starting point to more than beach town. Pick a starting point and draw a line to NYC or have gps do it for you. See which states do you cross through. Look to see which interesting places aren’t too far out of the way from your route unless you rely mean every place and turn this will be a months long trip. As for price that’s up to you. Do you sleep in your car? Or at a fancy hotel? Or somewhere in between? What kind of car? What’s the gas mileage? How much do these interesting places cost? What will you eat? No you can’t go west to east coast entirely by boat but since you want all the interesting places you can take driving breaks by doing Mississippi River cruises I guess. Well if you do it in a very fuel efficient car drive straight through and dont eat so you only spend money on gas you could probably do it for like $200 in gas. If you stop every night at a luxury hotel rent a ferrari to do the drive see all the sights and eat at high end restauraunts three times a day you could probably spend $100000. And there are almost infinite options in between. A better plan would be to figure out your desired budget and means of travel and then figure out what options fit that. lol you cant fully cross the US on a boat without taking the boat out of the water a couple times but Im sure someone has a story somewhere. Doing the Lewis and Clark trip from the West to Central and a Great Lakes trip out to the Atlantic... A roadtrip of any reasonable level of enjoyment would be probably 3 weeks. Budget is up to you. The 3 choices are camping staying in interstate type motels Holiday inn Express is usually reasonably clean or going places with upscale hotels. If its a true one way trip youll have to also figure out the car one way rentals can get expensive when the drop off is 3000 miles from the pickup. Another option that IS possible is Amtrak. Its a slow train out west but you could plan stops get local rental cars for a couple days at a time and see things that way. Flagstaff for example is a cool place with a train station in the West. San Diego to Miami is about 36 hours of driving without sightseeing. Key West another 4 hours. That’s a straight line. You could easily spend a month crossing only the southern 1/2 of the country and maybe $1000 on gas. The whole US maybe 3 months and $34000 in gas if you don’t spend too much time looking at stuff. The price is going to vary wildly based on how much time and money youre willing to spend. Id also strongly recommend doing a shorter more scenic route. Your main expenses are going to be car rental gas hotels and food. Its entirely up to you on how long you take and how much you want to spend. Low end youre looking at a minimum of $50 / day car rental $50 / day gas $125 / night hotel and $50 / day food. You could cut prices down if you camp assuming you already have gear or bring your own food but I wouldnt actually bank on that saving you money. Making this a 2 person trip would go a long way on making it more affordable though. Also a lot of America simply is repetitive or empty or simply lacking in appeal to visit or even drive through. I say this as someone whos lived primarily in Texas and a little bit of Oklahoma and have gone on many many road trips in all directions. Ive had so many times I have a stop planned at somewhere semiinteresting 8 hours from home and end up driving 14 hours on day 1 because getting to the actually interesting parts of the trip is better than a night in Amarillo or Little Rock. A much more interesting version of this trip that I will probably do in the next few years would be to drive L.A. to Vancouver via San Francisco Portland and Seattle. Then add in Sequoia Yosemite Redwoods Olympic and Northern Cascades National Parks and other national Parks and forest. Plus Pacific Coast Highway / Highway 1. That would make for a truly stunning trip. Sidenote if youre under 25 your car rental may be significantly more difficult to get and / or more expensive. Considering Vegas is along that trip… all of your money. And your parents money. And a good bit of your friends money I would say 3 months and 25000. That’s a quick estimate. Id probably say $250300 a day. It could take from 5 days to a year depending on what you want to see. Cost depends on the fuel economy of the vehicle. Accomodations. Food. Admission to sites youre visiting. Bare bones cheapest would be a motorcycle with a small tent and a sleeping bag. Issues with that are finding good places to camp overnight safety weather hygiene. Next up would be a minivan converted into a mini motorhome. Pull out the back and center seats put a bunk/cot along one side a cooler or solar/battery powered refrigerator/freezer/cooler combo. A little gas powered stove top. Full size van would be a larger version of the mini motorhome. Small motorhome. Increased size and comfort levels increase costs. From San Francisco to NYC in my current vehicle would be at least $1200 in gas alone. Rent an RV perhaps? Won’t be cheap or fast but you cam really experience a lot of different landscapes desert mountains high plains forests river valleys and on and on. Uh...depends on what car youre driving. Electric youre going to have issues with finding charging stations except on major interstates which are inherently not interesting to drive. Normal car youre going to have to find gas stations and how often you have to fill up not just gas mileage but how far you are from the next station. You could probably cross the country in five days if you just focused on driving or you could take as long as you wanted. Biking? Weeks or months depending on you and the route you choose. Money is going to depend on what you consider interesting to stop at if you want to go in national parks or Disney or other major attractions youll have to pay how you choose to sleep in the car notell motel four stars couch surfing Airbnb etc how much how often and where you eat what mode of transport you picked. If youre okay with watching from the window Amtrak would probably be the most costeffective there are a couple alternatives from the West Coast to Chicago and from there to the East Coast but you will be limited in where you can get off the train and what attractions youre near. I can’t speak to the cost but according to Lucy Ricardo going NY to LA to see everything we have to go through New York three times on the way to Chicago.” It depends on a lot of factors. You would have to be way more specific because we dont know if you want to see everything in the lower 48 states or just drive straight across the country. As a rough estimate I would budget a few thousand dollars especially if youre renting a vehicle and expect it to take about a week. Interesting is subjective but it would take you a lifetime or more to see every Interesting place from coast to coast. As for the cost. Who knows. A long time and a lot of money. It’s just such a huge landmass. I would say an RV. Somewhere between two hundred dollars and two hundred thousand dollars There are a lot of variables for that equation From LA its about 2800 miles and will take at least 40 hours by car with no stops. If you go by car how many MPG does your car get? What is the average price of gas on your route? We will assume the car is in good condition and wont break down at all on the trip. The national average right now for regular gasoline is $3.131. In 2020 the average miles per gallon in the US was 25.7 for a light vehicle 109ish gallons needed for trip / $341. Towing a trailer will lower that due to weight and air resistance. There is a bus that will take over 60 hours and cost less than $150. But you wont see anything. 69 nice hours by train for about $350 also no real sightseeing. The sights would depend on your point of view. Are you more into natural wonder or manmade icons? Either way its going to add serious miles and hours to the trip. When I was a kid my mom piled me and my gram in the car and left NYC for the West Coast. Two weeks round trip. We saw Niagra Falls the Badlands the Grand Tetons I saw the Pacific Ocean we hung out in Seattle for a day or two and headed back. Different route but not much different because we needed to make time. Saw Mark Twains hometown saw the St. Louis Arch and a lot of soy corn and wheat. This country is a lot bigger than you think it is. Even if you have gone all the way across and back Let’s round to make the math easier 2500 miles in a car that gets 25 miles to the gallon with gas at $3.00 per gallon gets you 2500 miles / 25 miles per gallon =100 gallons of gas *$3.00 per gallon = $300.00 in fuel. If you drive straight through it takes about three days so two overnight stays at $100.00. So minimum $500.00 in gas and lodging not counting food attractions or additional miles to see interesting stuff. To go to every interesting place? Months or years. To just drive straight across? A few days if you have someone to trade off driving with. The problem with US tourism is that our major attractions especially the natural ones say yellowstone or the grand canyon are so far apart. Youd have to spend at least a few weeks to see everything by road and much of that time would be driving across long unimpressive stretches of great plains. Youre much better off picking a few different major destinations and really taking your time in each one taking flights to get across. Idk if you can cross the US on a boat the Mississippi River runs almost the entire course of the United States but northsouth roughly rather than eastwest. I am not sure it is open to longdistance passenger transport however. Bicycle sleep outside never eat $0 $347.34 per person per day. The amount does not include car gas hotel meals or any other travel related expenses Depends. If you have a fuel efficient car and a tent you could probably do it for five or six hundred dollars. You could do a lot of meandering and still only drive 4000 miles in a week or so. On the other hand I’ve driven coast to coast on a handful of occasions staying in hotels along the way. I could easily make the trip take years and hundreds of thousands of dollars. All depends on how much you find interesting and how many days/weeks you find each interesting thing worth investing. Too much. Its not really what youre asking but a cannonball run is the name of a speed run from coast to coast. The wiki for it is interesting and a bit of poking around will get you even more information on how its done. It might be fun to read about while waiting for someone to answer your question. There is no interesting sightseeing on a cannonball run though. I budget $150/day. That either provides $100 for gas and $50 for food and incidentals if I run a rig with its own sleeping area or its $100 for a cheap motel and $30 for gas and $20 for food if I use my hybrid. If I camp I can spend less than that but its trickier to plan if I am moving every day. Then it just becomes a matter of how many stops you want to make. If they are close and fairly small you can hit two a day larger ones take a full day. Id schedule at least 2 days for Yellowstone 2 for Grand Canyon and a few others like that. We just finished a trip across the US for two weeks doing a small amount of zigzagging We saw about 20 sites we wanted to see but only covered about a 1 state wide swath. Id schedule double that and take another route back. We drove for about 6 hours each day which left us plenty of time to sightsee. I plan and take a lot of my own food that can be heated on the road or I use the microwave in the hotel. Edit That $150/day does not include car rental as I use my own vehicle No on the boat. If I wanted to stop at every place I found interesting it would be a month at least. Many folks with time limits could do it in a week with limited detours. Depends what car you were driving which route you took how often you were planning to stop how many days you wanted the trip to take etc. 6000 miles 25 mi/gallon 240 gallons $4 gallon average $960 in gas. 10 days midsize SUV unlimited miles rental $1700 National park annual pass $80 Now we get to the flexible budget stuff Are you staying in hotels? Camping campgrounds or dispersed? Will you need to pay for showers separately? Are you making your own meals Do you want to buy a camp stove are you eating meals in restaurants? Last road trip I did I budgeted $10/person/ meal and made a lot of our own food and ate out 12x day. So for 1 person that’s 300 in food. Camping and rooms I’d budget $100/ night and move between some dispersed camping cheap hotels and nicer places. That’s $1000. All in that’s $4k+ so if I was doing a solo cross putty road trip I’d budget $5k and then have some in reserve in case of a major problem . If you want to visit every interesting place you would need a camper and it would take MONTHS. The United States is massive. 200 years and $30 million Just pick a number. 14 days would let you see a lot. Figure $150 per night lodging and $100 per day meals for two. Gas at $0.20/mile for 5000 miles 42 hrs 2800 miles LAX JFK via shortest route per Google maps nonstop driving. So lodging $2100 meals $1400 gas $1000. Total is $4500 plus attraction fees. Touching on a single aspect of why this question is impossible to answer as its written Im going to share some observations about gas prices a single cost item to consider one of many for a trip on the scale you are suggesting. Having just gotten home yesterday from a two week road trip Im can tell you that gas prices vary far more than you might expect. Two days ago gas was $2.94 on one side of a mountain and $3.79 on the other side. Once across the next state border gas jumped up again to just over $4 per gallon. The closer you get to the interesting places like Yellowstone the higher the price of gas generally. so a notalwaysobvious hidden cost of cross country travel is the variation of fuel costs in particular near the big attractions youre suggesting youd like to include in this trip. Some of the lowest prices I saw were in tiny little towns far from any large city. Prices were noticeably lower in states with smaller populations like the Dakotas and Montana. High speed limits can decrease any saving from lower costs when the freeway speed is 80 mph depending on the vehicle youre driving. Long lines to enter certain attraction will have some effect too. Distance between points of interest which specific points of interest are worthwhile to you personally and how comfortable you are driving on freeways versus secondary highways. All of this will impact the cost of fuel. Once you figure out which things you want to see you then need to take some time to map out the best way to get from one to the next. All of that before you ever consider enough funds for an extra tank or two in case of big detours traffic was rerouted miles out of the way a couple years ago when the road near Yellowstone collapsed. Cost is impossible to accurately gage and time can be almost as hard on a coast to coast road trip. Type of vehicle what interesting means to you when you plan to travel and your sleeping accommodations are major variables. The US is the 3rd largest country in the world behind Russia and Canada. A coast to coast road trip will be easily 4500KM. Its easier to plan your budget both time and money and decide a route after. You will have to trim your list down from every interesting place between the west and east coasts. That could take a year depending on what you found interesting. For the big tourist places there are so many of them. Im from the West Coast so I feel Yellowstone the Grand Canyon Zion and Yosemite are must see National Parks. There are so many others such as the Grand Tetons Bryce Arches Glacier Acadia the Great Smokies Redwood Sequoia Crater Lake the Badlands Mesa Verde plus I could mention even more in Alsaka and Hawaii. There are so many others. Plus there are cities history culture etc. If you wanted to drive long days stopping for the night and not seeing any sights it would take 3days on the interstate depending on the route say San Francisco to New York on 80. Youre not going to see a lot that way. Now if say you want to drive Historic Route 66 from Chicago not the East coast to LA it will take you 3 weeks assuming you want to spend a little time at each stop and drive about 200 miles or so a day the route is 2400 miles [3862 KM]. I dont think that is the best use of your time. If this is something you want to do you need to decide what you want to see and do and plan your route accordingly. If youre crossing the country you really need to focus on the Northern Central ir Southern route. It would be easier to advise someone visiting the US that wanted to make this trek if I knew their interests and the time of the year they would be in the US. Then Americans could direct you to some of the must see places in the US. It makes more sense to make use of the interstate system but have an iteniery. As for costs. There depends on your tastes. People do go car camping. I wouldnt want to do it but people do it. Or when you land make a side trip to a Walmart and buy a tent sleeping bags etc. and plan your trip via KOA Campgrounds or make State and National Park reservations. You can find hotels in a variety of price ranges and the US does have hostels. FYI when coming to US under the current crazy administration you really need to have hotel reservations or plans on where you are staying before you arrive. I drove coast to coast in just over three days staying at average hotels and mostly sustaining myself on road food cost me about $900. So thats probably your baseline where trying to do things on the way is just going to add to that. For an average road trip vacation I would recommend 23 weeks probably around $500/day if you want to eat in restaurants and stay in reasonably nice hotels. Plus gas for the car. You could do it on the cheap if you camp and if you take the bus or train between big cities rather than drive yourself. Forget Yellowstone. Start in San Francisco and got to Lake Tahoe then to southern Nevada and cross over to Cedar City Utah. Go to Zion Moab Bryce Canyon and a few more awesome scenic areas. Then get serious and drive 12 hours a day until you reach the Shenandoah Valley. Did imperial Beach CA to Jacksonville FL. About $250 in gas and $100 a day to eat see things that cost money and find a shitty place to sleep. Ive done it several times but I also find work along the way so Im not sure my experiences are typical. Essentially you can just calculate your cars mpg multiply by the number of miles and account for food lodging and recreation. Me Ive found ways of doing it without paying for lodging anywhere and never sleeping in my car. Couchsurfing.com is wonderful as are my Instagram friends. There are a couple of main routes you can take and you stop at the things you find interesting along that route it’ll probably take about 45 days. Now if you choose to camp or not stay at hotels or drive overnight because there are more drivers that’ll take some cash off then you have to cost of food so that’s going to depend on if you drop in like a local diner or something or have some pre packed snacks to make it through. In a car that gets good mileage one way for gas is about $350400 Last time I did it when all was said and told because we did a round trip taking the southern and northern route it ended up being a bit over a $1000 between two people. myscenicdrives.com. No one can answer this since it depends on the route If you hobo it on the rails it can be pretty cheap. This is entirely too broad of a question to answer realistically. What kind of vehicle are you using? How many people? Are you going to sleep in it or get hotel rooms to stay at? What about campgrounds? Are you going to be eating out every meal or cooking and planning to bring food along like youre car camping or RVing? Whats your timeline? 3 weeks? 6 months? How fuel efficient is your vehicle because a 30 foot RV and a Toyota sedan arent even in the same ballpark. What regions of the country are you planning to hit? How many national parks? How big is your budget? Even with the clarification of every interesting place doesnt mean what you think it does. Some people want to see Vegas. Some want to see the Grand Canyon. Some want to see the deserts of the Southwest or the beaches of Florida while others want to see the Great Smoky Mountains or Chicago architecture or the Northern Lights out in the middle of nowhere somewhere in Michigan or Minnesota. Some people like fishing. Some people like camping or hiking. Some love New Orleans. You are talking about a country a continent wide with multiple massive biomes and 346 cities with more than 100k people. You have to be more specific. 4 people renting a camper van sleep at campgrounds do some hikes and hit several national parks 10 week timeline fine doing grocery shopping and eating hiking food dont care much for the south and uninterested in going to major cities but one person does want to see the Great Lakes. That gives us something to work on. There are a lot of variables that need to considered to determine the cost. If out knowing them no one can give you an average because everyones trip going to be different. A lot of the variables are also going to be very subjective that no one would be able to answer for you. So first thing you are looking at is the fuel cost for driving. the Average Miles per Gallon of fuel for US vehicles is 26 mpg. For this I used a 2025 Toyota Rav4 at 55% city driving. To go from San Francisco to New York City its going to cost you about $305.26 in fuel for the drive. The total travel distance is 2907 miles with 43 hours of total drive time. If you are driving it with another person trading driving responsibilities while one person sleeps. You can drive straight through in less than two days. But if you are doing this on your own I will assume only driving 8 hours per day. That would result in you stopping 5 times. You could sleep in your vehicle at one of the many rest stops for free or you could get a hotel. Since you asked about averages the average hotel stay is about $148 per night totaling $740 in accommodations for the trip. The number of stops is reduced by 1 for every 2 extra hours you drive per day. 10 hours driving per day youd make 4 stops. 12 hours driving you make about 3. This is with no stops to view points of interest visit an city. Just point A to point B. Now say you wanted to visit two national parks Yellowstone and Mount Rushmore. That is going to add 322 miles and 6 hours of travel to the trip. Now lets say you wanted to visit one national park Yellowstone and one historical city with good food. We will use New Orleans for this. That would be an additional 1209 miles 19 hours of drive time added. The US is a big country with everything pretty spread out especially for the more western parts of the country. So the total cost for driving straight through no stops beside sleeping and fuel. Not accounting for food or anything extra. Just travel costs comes to $1045.26. That is your starting point for traveling coast to coast in the US with a starting point in San Francisco and an final destination of NYC. Any extra stop and the order in which you make those stops is going to add a considerable amount travel time. This is why what you want to see and where you want to go is extremely important when considering a cross country trip in the US. Been there done that. Costs vary wildly by method of transportation car truck bike train EV where you sleep camp hotel motel food groceries and prep your own restaurants fast food...etc . 3k miles for estimate. Avg 65mph drive 10 hours a day. Would be just about 5 days. 4 nights hotel at lets say you stay cheap $120=$480. Lets say $500 Gas oats say you have a hybrid and get 35mpg at 65mph 87 lets just say 90 gallons of gas at national avg of $3.15 that would be $283.50. lets say $300 Food you stop for cheaper quick restaurants 60 a day $300 So rough estimate trying to save without penny pinching too hard and no tourism $1100 $500infinite Alright so just for grins i plugged in San Francisco airport to JFK Airport in NYC into google maps. You’re looking at around $60 in tolls and a 3000 mile drive going straight through. 3200 if you stop at the Grand Canyon. A compactconvertible Mazda Miata RF will pick up about 35 miles per gallon on the highway. Assuming $3.30 for fuel it is very not standard across the country and time of year so you’re looking at $300+ in terms of fuel. You could do electric but personally I would be nervous about finding charging stations in the arizona desert. That’s about 48 hours of nonstop driving so in human terms it’s probably more like a week. You’re probably looking at about $1000 a week for your rental car. So that’s gonna be $2360 for a twoweek trip I assume you don’t want to *just* drive not counting airfare and only hitting 3 interesting spots SF Grand Canyon and NYC though you could easily spend multiple days in SF or NYC. I’m not including the most expensive part though and that’s gonna be your hotels and food. If you airBNB/crappy motel your way across you’re going to get a wildly different price range and experience a very different sort of people from if you go to nice hotels or BNB’s. The same is true if you stop at grocery stores and picnic your way across or if you eat Taco Bell every time you stop but that’s boring and would murder your intestines or if you want to try local restaurants or some fancy spots. I really can’t account for that especially if you aren’t traveling alone. I’m certain there are tripplanning sites online. You should make a list of places you’d like to see and game it out according to what you consider an interesting place and how long you want to spend there you could spend months hiking in Yellowstone for example. If you like natural landmarks Yellowstone Grand Canyon and Acadia national parks are all awesome and wildly different environments. Arches National Park I think that’s what it’s called is fascinating lots of natural stone arches and Bryce Canyon is vertigoinducing. If you’re into urban architecture SF Chicago Houston NYC Boston and Washington DC are all really nice for that. For picturesque small towns Route 1 along the north atlantic coast is great. Kennebunkport is really lovely. Fredericksburg in Texas is really cool. If you’re into military history you can find lots of museum ships. Texas has the USS Texas a battleship and the Lexington an air craft carrier and you can just take a tour and hang out on the ships. Chicago also has the only remaining German UBoat. Anyway yeah hope that helps. Good luck! Manhattan beach California to Yellowstone National Park to Times Square NYC is 3175 miles. If you drive 10 hours a day at 70 MPH it would take 4.5 days of driving. To rent a Toyota rav4 would cost 130$ for 5 days. A Toyota rav4 gets 38 mpg. it would take 84 gallons of gas. The current national average for gas is $3.13. the cost of gas for this trip would be $263. If you stayed in a hotel 5 nights at the National average of 156$ it would cost $780. If you spend 50$ on food a day it’d be 250$ Total trip cost $1175 Context matters. What kind of accomodations you stay at will be a major part of your expenses. A former coworker from Europe rented a mobile home for a month and drove across the country starting in Western PA to California. They spent a month and over US$10000 just on fuel and camping sites. Some money was saved by cooking for themselves but they also tried local cuisine and went site seeing everywhere they went. His mother and brother had lists of sites they had to see and so they did. Their route was not direct they did a lot of cities in the north Cleveland Chicago and south Atlanta New Orleans and all over the Midwest as well. Plus Texas. I think they stayed in a hotel in California I know they did Disney and flew back to PA from there. The $10k didn’t include hotels site seeing or the flight back. I’d say that was another $10k. That was in the 1990’s. Bike is only possible if you have support from a chase vehicle or if you are well connected Redondo Beach Los Angeles to E 31st Street NYC is about 2906 miles and has been done in under 26 hours. Seeing every interesting place would be at least 2 weeks. Depending on your definition of every interesting place a $5000 budget would pay for a rental car gas hotels meals and entrance fees. The US is huge and the gaps between super interesting things vast. My wife and I did it for around $4000. No. Have you looked at a contintinal map? Conservatively doing as you described and stopping and doing fun things along the way. It would take you two weeks to drive a across the country. For gas having fun and sleeping enjoying local places like a good diner or nice restaurant along the way. I think youre looking at $45000. Its hard to understand how large the US is its huge. And you do not want to be staying at cheap hotels and worse along the way. Youll hate the trip quickly. Depends on your route on your car how often you stop what you eat etc etc it could easily range from a couple thousand to tens of thousands possibly even hundreds Depends on how many things you consider worth seeing and how much time youd actually want to spend at them all. Wanting to walk around Yellowstone and see geysers is different to just driving through the national park. Fly to San Francisco rent a car for Yosemite Big Sur redwoods. Fly to Las Vegas drive to the Mighty Five national parks. Fly to Bozeman drive to Yellowstone Tetons Glacier. Fly to NYC do road trips. Driving across high desert and corn fields is interesting for about twenty minutes. I wouldn’t do it in one trip. It’s just too much. If you must I’d rent an rv van to make the driving more enjoyable. You’ll be able to camp in the rv at most places. You’ll need 5 to 8 weeks and I’d budget 50k for the trip. This is just off the top of my head. I would put together a detailed plan first that defined what I was doing every day. How long is a piece of string? Sooooo much money and time. I think people forget that the US is roughly the same size as Europe. Driving basically nonstop from one coast to the other could take approx 50 hours and approx $600 +/ in gas. Amtrak is the way to go here. Even without one of their many sales a 10stop 30day pass is $500. If you drive about 6 hours a day thats a week of driving. A week of hotel rooms would be maybe $800. Gas maybe $300. Eating all meals at restaurants well say $350. For every attraction you go see it will add a lot of miles which could add days to your trip. Dont forget admission tickets extra needs like sunblock or umbrella souvenirs etc. What about getting back? Are you flying back? Did you rent a car? Minimum $1500 if you dont do anything fun didnt rent a car and somehow dont need to go back home. Or if youre willing to drive 810 hours a day you could cut that back to under $1000. But then you *really* wouldnt have time to see anything and its borderline dangerous to drive so much. More realistically lets say youre visiting from abroad. Fly in to NYC and out of LA. Youll have to rent a car. I dont know the cost on that but it will definitely be a factor. Im just going to ballpark $1000? idk. I would plan on something more like three weeks because the things you want to see are going to be really far apart. Youre going to end up driving a lot more miles and realizing that it would have been better to narrow it down and fly. But if you really want to drive I would budget at least $7000. 1.5k per week plus car rental plus miscellaneous. Add 2k for a second person. Driving coast to coast with no detours about 3 to 4 days sleeping in your car for about $500 . I have done that before. With so many variables it could be a month and thousands of dollars. It is pretty hard to answer how long it would take or how much it would cost. Maybe several days to 2 weeks depending on how much you drive each day. You should plan a route you want to take and then you can find places to stay or attractions along the way and start investigating costs. I would imagine you might spend $1000$3000 or more on a car trip from California to New York. A bike might limit the time of year you travel extend the length of your trip a lot limit what you can carry with you. Unless you adore riding a bike and have unlimited time then I would probably choose differently. Are you going to drive 4 hours a day or 8 hours? Will you stay at hotels motels air bnb stay with friends or family or camp out? Are you going to eat at restaurants or buy food at grocery stores? Are you going to mostly go to free or low cost attractions or will you be stopping at museums zoos amusement parks wineries or breweries? Are you going to shop? You could look into trains and buses. You don’t have as much freedom to stop wherever but they exist. Id budget about two months. So an easy answer would be taking a train. Youd have to look up those costs depending on where you start and visit and choice of route/routes. You can go to the Grand Canyon by Amtrak though you have to bus there from the train and bus back. The train would take forever because it stops EVERYWHERE but then youd get to see EVERYTHING like you wanted. Driving would be another option. Its about 1300 miles from KC in the middle of the country to the Atlantic Ocean in Va Beach. I drive out regularly too regularly. If I drive straight through and look at only interesting things out my windows and at the gas station assuming 35mpg and $4/gal of gas it would cost me about $150 in gas assuming i can math and another $150 in crappy food and gas station trinkets. Its about 1600 miles the other way if you went to the Pacific Ocean in LA. I find mpg is worse in the Rockies than Appalachian so figure 30mpg and average $4/gal. So around $200 in gas and equal in crappy food. We are at $700 in gas and gutwrenching food at this point and all weve done is drive and eat. I hope you have a copilot to share driving duties. To drive to/from LA and VA Beach its about 40 hours. So no driving straight through. Your car and eyes and butt need a break. Assume the creepiest places you can find to sleep are a minimum of $100 a night with taxes. Multiply that by nights you want to sleep in a bed. Say minimum 4 nights so you can do free sight seeing/leg stretching breaks and add $400 and $50 extra gas money. Get yourself a fuel efficient vehicle and some octane boosters and then drive from coast to coast for $1150 plus add tolls and tickets to paid activities and souvenirs maybe extra nights if you want to go slower and I feel like $1500 is your bargain basement 2900 mile trip assuming you already own the fuel efficient car and it is in good working order. Feel free to check my math I just got back from a 30 hour drive and my brain may not be braining. If you dont mind San Francisco to NYC or the reverse you could try a Lincoln Highway drive. Side quests would add extra cost and time of course. Heres a good video about what thats like . Actual total cost depends on too many factors to name as others have already noted. But if you identify a route you can then get the cost of food and lodging in the places youll be going through. I did something kind of like this last year but more like a massive loop over the midwest to western part of the country. I was supposed to go on an overseas trip but some issues came up and I wasnt able to go. As I had already took the time off I legitimately just straight up told my wife Fuck it were going to drive across the country. As I didnt want to put the miles on our own car I went over and rented a large SUV from the local Budget rental. Total I drove my wife doesnt drive as she doesnt have a license \~5850 miles spread out across 14 days which averaged out to around 420 miles a day but there were some days where I put on more miles than others. Quite a few I drove nine to ten hours at averages of 7075 MPH. My kids loved the ride surprisingly and we had no major issues with everyone riding. Nine to ten hours driving is nothing for me and Ive frequently drove \~twelve to \~fourteen hours in my youth. For comparison re miles you can drive coast to coast in the span of roughly 2450 via I10 so I drove near the equivalence of roughly driving from one coast to the other then turning around. We saw Yellowstone National Park the redwood forest of lower Oregon/N California the East Coast Joshua Tree park the Grand Canyon drove through a few areas of the Rocky Mountains the craters of the moon in Idaho and portions of Route 66. This all also includes small other stops of things we wanted to check out along the way including a two day stay in southern Cali prior to shooting back over towards home. As far as costs most nights we stayed at Home2 Suites which my wife and I enjoy a lot. Those range \~$180$220 a night. We saved a little money staying at other random places along the day. We didnt plan any of the stays literally just drove and my wife would look up when the next big place was coming up. As far as fuel costs I didnt keep my receipts but easily we spent around \~$750 for sure on the conservative end especially in California where at one point fuel was $6.10 a gallon. Going through national parks we saved by purchasing a year pass which pays for itself the moment you go through three national parks. Ultimately theres a lot of factors at play to drive coast to coast but it is very much feasible to do so. I very much enjoyed that drive. If you drive coast to coast would take as little as about 4 days pretty full tiring days. Cost would be gas assume ~20 miles per gallon however many miles for the route and varying gas costs across states plus lodging food and visits. The visits is the hard part to estimate. There are a million places you could see along the way. My family has taken many cross country driving trips and they keep varying their route to see different things and they’ve found TONS of cool places along their travels. Of course these visits add time and cost to the trip. If you wanted to haul ass and get there fast and cheap you could do it in 4 days cheap fast food and gas station snacks/stops plus sleep in your vehicle possible with a large suv/minivan and very little luggage. Wouldn’t be a super comfortable way to travel but would be cheap and fast If you want to visit pretty much all the popular destinations then no less than 3 months. Do you already own a car? If not then the car rental itself will be a few thousand dollars. Otherwise factor in about $200300 per day split with 24 other people hotel room food gas tourist site fees unexpected expenses etc A lot my family spent a few hundred dollars just for the ten hour drive/accommodations to Florida And that’s while sleeping at the cheapest motel near where we was gonna be I did something like that last year but instead I went only 2/3 the way across. It took just a touch over a month and 4 thousand dollars. That’s with being extremely frugal with the food budget no fast food allowed and staying with people we knew for free on some of the trip. I can guesstimate it. I’ve done ocean to ocean a few times. LA to NYC is 2791 miles. Let’s say your car gets about 25 MPG at 3.25 a gallon that’s about 111 gallons or $360. You *can* sleep in your car but I don’t play that way. Figure about $100 a night for Motel6. This trip can be done in about 5 days at around +550 miles a day of driving. Food can vary a lot. If you make your own sandwiches and buy snacks at a grocery store then it’s a lot cheaper. I figure about $40.00 per day per person for meals and snacks. Total is around a $1000.00 plus minus $200.00 bucks per added person for food. Before I get crucified that gas and hotels are more expensive they are on the coasts. I’ve stayed at Motel6 for $58.00 a night. Food wise if you have a few hard boiled eggs and a sandwich it’s less than 2 bucks. US coast to coast is about 2800 or 5600 both ways. Add about 5 to 10% to visit POIs out of the way lets just call it 6000. Gas and millege is about $0.70 / mile but if you have an old beater lets just call it $0.50 so $3000 just for gas + wear and tear on your car. The trip will take you anywhere between 7 to 14 days best case 12 hour a day riding 70mph will get you close to 7 days. You should be able to do cheap motels Best Western etc at maybe $100 a night. So $1000? It would come with free breakfast. You could probabbly cheap out on the food $10 to 20 Chinese buffets per person maybe a Chills $30 per person. So $25 / day per person lets say for 3 people. $750 for food for a 10 day trip. Most of the POIs will be free but a few might charge. So $250?? So youre looking at maybe $5000. Add 20% since I probabbly underestimated some things so $6k The drive alone will be $300$400 and take about 40 hours to drive. Non stop no breaks no meals. So set that as a base. Depending on where you stop and what you do it could be vastly different prices. But thousands even if you just stop several times for a day or so + meals. At least a couple thousand with gas food and hotels. Not even including things like souvineers and passes to national parks state parks attractions etc. Also not including renting a car or RV if you don’t have one. There are so many interesting things to see you can’t see them all. Carefully plan what places are must see then look at things close by or on the way. Dozens of theme parks dozens of cities dozens of national parks/national monuments/state parks. Many of these places demand at least a few days if not a week minimum to somewhat experience. LA and SD have a ton. You have Disneyland beautiful beaches Knotts berry farms Universal studios and 6 flags Magic Mountain which all should be experienced if you haven’t. NYC demands at least a week minimum. I took three weeks and traveled Missouri to California and back for around $700 in 2017 via car. This included seeing multiple southwest national parks and a couple of activities in California. I slept in my car. I did another section from Missouri to Florida and saw a lot of the southeast National Parks that same year for another $500 and 2 weeks once again car camping. Neither time did I cross the longitudinal halfway point from north to south and both times I still missed a couple of National Parks/cool sights. It would take over 40 hours of direct non stop drive to get from California to New York without any stops. This is around 3000 miles so assuming you have a car that gets 30 mpg youll need over 100 gallons of gas. Average price of gas today is 3.13 so youd $313 for gas only if you take the direct route and this is a low ball estimate considering that the average Price of gas in the US includes many states that youre not going to drive through and typically have cheap gas such as Mississippi. This does not account for extra pull offs to get gas tolls lodging food activities gear needed et cetera. National Park pass is $85. Car camping ranges from poaching a spot to up to $25 a spot depending where youre at... Food will depend if you eat out or try to cook. So your question is hard to answer. The distance from Yellowstone to White Sands National Park is over 1700 miles. When you get to White Sands you will be approximately 300 miles farther east than Yosemite. So you will drive 1.5 days to get 10% of the way across the USA to see those two spots. This is why people choose a route northern southern and midwestern. I could make this cost $50000 or less than $1000. The gas alone would probably cost $250. You can camp anywhere you want to stay for minimal dollars per night. Im not really counting food since you have to eat no matter where you are. This would be a bare bones trip but it could definitely be done with some awesome sites along the way like Yosemite Yellowstone a Utah park or two and Rocky Mountain NP the St. Louis arch Washington DC and NYC. Well in the old days i used to hitchhike across the country and it cost me nothing. Wouldnt suggest that today. If you drove straight through without stopping sleeping eating peeing getting gas it would take you 40 hours to make it from NYC to LA. That is 2 days of straight driving without a break. If I wanted to stop some places Id take a week to do it. You can sleep in your car but if you want to find motels you can probably find a place for $100 maybe less a night. Gas and eating Id say you are up to $700800 for the trip. There is no way to answer that questions. Way too many variables. If you drive mostly straight through stopping to sleep and eat with a few visits with people takes about a week. Source Did it. lol Europeans are adorable Skys the limit. Just the driving alone probably takes 10 days and costs several $100 in gas. Youre going to need food for those 10 days. And lodgings unless you want to sleep in the car. In which case you need at least some camping equipment. Personally I wouldnt want to try it without at least $1000 in the bank and that means sleeping in my vehicle and camping the whole way. It would be thousands of dollars and it would take a very long time. I rode a motorcycle to all lower 48 states in one trip 18500mi 21/2 months and travelled very cheaply. Did it for $5k6k. You could probably go coast to coast and hit some great spots along the way for 1k maybe even less if you get into train hopping and hitchhiking. Miles of your Route/Vehicle fuel efficiency\*Average price of gas = Cost of fuel for the trip. Thatll be your most direct cost that you cant escape. You can sleep in your car a night or two to save on hotels. Go to the grocery store and buy stuff to eat along the way instead of eating out. But fuel is pretty much set by the route you take. I’d conservatively estimate the mileage at 4000. A cannonball run is 2900 miles but allowing for some landmarks and things we’ll definitely want to add on more time. If I wanted to do the trip as economically as possible I’d drive my 2011 Honda Insight and sleep in the back. I would plan on ~300 miles per day which would allow for a few hours of sightseeing most days. So a 13 day trip with a $20/day food budget and about $300 for food and another $100 for incidentals would cost me $660. So i can tell you this cause i did it! More than once! Car 2023 Ford Lightning Trip LVNV to Austin TX Cost 6080 USD per charge Range 100 miles cause brick shape End cost 1k round trip Now going from MD to LV That was about 600 USD one way MDLV Car Honda Rigline BE w/ full bed w/Trailer w/1992 miata Cost 600 ish Range i forgot In 2019 I visited in 48 days. $5600 recorded as our lodging costs comes to about $115 per night. $2575 recorded for all of our activities. $1630 total gasoline cost. Probably about $250 for parking. $110.17 in tolls. I didnt track food. We drove 17548 miles. It was around 300 hours of driving. We purchased 603.14 gallons of gasoline. 29.094 average mpg We made 82 stops along the way not counting meals gas and bathroom breaks. There was one major tourist activity in every state and a bunch of driveby photography. We stayed at 28 KOA campgrounds 1 National Park 1 State Park and 17 various chain and independent hotels. Bruv and entire road trip going like 80mph or 133km/h would take over 30 hours to travel from the west coast to the east coast. It is a huge country. Even a road trip across Washington to Idaho is 67 hours. States are like European countries or larger. Yep. And depending on what you define as interesting it could be a very long trip. I did a fun cross country road trip in 2019 it was like $2k for all the motels gas food and attractions and I kept it really light and stayed with people I knew. I would never do it again. Not worth the hassle Took about 3 weeks few days longer than I expected because my car got smashed into and burglarized in Missouri. The last day was fun driving 1100 miles straight home with a busted front window. Was the longest and most annoying drive of my life. If you wanted to see every possible attraction along the way and had a wide radius as to how far off the main route you could go it could take years to stop every where and see every single thing. Its a big country. To be able to travel without feeling rushed would be hard. My daughter and I just drove from my house in Virginia to her house in Utah. Shes in her mid twenties so we took turns driving. Was an amazing experience and an even more amazing time chatting for 6 days straight with my daughter. We took a slightly longer route because there were a few things we wanted to do along the way. We ate pizza at Buddys in Detroit we saw my sister in Minneapolis saw The Badlands Mt Rushmore Crazy Horse Black Hills in South Dakota and Cheyenne in Wyoming. We also just stopped if something looked interesting like The Corn Palace or Wall Drug Store in South Dakota its not just a drug store more like a giant tourist shop and worth the stop. We were driving my FJ Cruiser so gas was pretty expensive. Two or three fillups per day about 40 dollars each time. Hotels were under 100 dollars each night. Meals and snacks varied but probably around 100 dollars per day 50 dollars each. There were also entrance fees to stuff but as a veteran the national parks were free. So all in all about 300 dollars per day. Certainly cheaper to fly but I was giving my FJ to my daughter so flying wouldnt work. We thought about shipping it to her. Would have cost about the same but in hindsight Im so glad we drove. The time spent with my daughter was priceless and a time that I will cherish forever. Free if you want to hop trains. What a ridiculous and vague question I did a road trip from Alabama to WA and it wasnt direct stopped at places like the Grand Canyon Yosemite Arches park and so on. It took a week. That was in late 2023. Including the car rental gas food and hotel stays I believe it cost right around 1200 USD total. Bus. $69. You will stop everywhere. You cant cross east to west on a boat but you can go from south the Mississippi through to the Great Lakes and out to the Atlantic on a boat. If youre doing a straight shot youre probably looking at a thousand dollars or so I did it for about that a decade ago. If youre looking to be a tourist youre probably looking at a lot more. This is almost impossible to answer but lets assume a popular route of historic Route 66 from Los Angeles area in California to Chicago then on to New York City. You are looking at about 3300 miles on route assume attractions along the way are up to 50 miles off route and you stop at 1 of these that far off route on average every 250 miles as many will be less than 50 miles off route. This will add about another 1300 miles to the total trip bringing it to 4600 miles in total. On such a trip making tourist stops expect to average not over 200250 miles per day maybe 300 if you are really pushing it those tourist stops take time this is 56 hours on the road each day plus probably another 46 doing tourist stuff then you still have to eat sleep etc. Assuming a 25 mpg mid size SUV or similar for vehicle you are looking at around $700 in fuel alone taking about 18 day if staying in cheaper but still fairly safe motels away from prime tourist stops you can probably average around $100 $120 per night call it 17 nights at $100 per night $1700 $2000 in lodging alone though these days $150 per night might be more realistic for an average. For food it depends on how cheap you want to go cheapest would be an ice chest fixing sandwiches on the road eating the free breakfast many motels offer etc. Though you really should include eating some of the local and regional foods along the way at a minimum I would say budget $50$75 per person per day in order to try some of these local foods along the way. Every interesting place is so crazy to conceptualize. You cant just hit up national landmarks and major tourist attractions just by going from West to East. If you cut straight across the state driving north to south from the middle on either direction could take up to 24 hours of straight travel. Doing it in one go would probably take a month or two of just checking off boxes and tens of thousands of dollars of not approaching six figures depending on your means of travel and accommodations. This all for just going and checking off the boxes of being there and not getting a chance to appreciate the area surrounding these places. It sounds miserable to be honest. Probably a week. Your last paragraph lost me completely. Every interesting place includes a lot of places tourists never visit. Many places that tourists always want to see I find completely uninteresting. Doing it right the trip you propose would take years. But if you want to act like a tourist you would get some big ugly RV that eats a lot of gas and blocks everybody elses View and then work your way from National Park to National Park driving only on the interstate highways and it might take you six weeks or so and it would suck. INFO Ehat do you consider an interesting place”? Are you wanting just the natural wonders? Do you want to see museums? The biggest ball of yarn in the world? I’m going to assume you’d want to rent a car when you land. You’d want to find one that allows unlimited miles. That can get expensive. Even then gas is expensive. Depending on where you get it the price can fluctuate. It might be worth signing up to certain gas stations or grocery chains in order to get discounts on gas. Or sign up for a specific credit card that gives you either money off gas or just cash back on every dollar you spend. You also need to decide sleeping arrangements. Are you going to be in a hotel each night or do you plan on camping? Some lakes and parks do allow you rent cabins but you need to plan months ahead and make reservations. Are you wanting the full camping experience? Are you planning on buying tents sleeping bags etc? Or are you renting an RV/camper to travel around the country? Again you may need to make campground reservations months in advance in some places. Campgrounds aren’t free so you need to factor those fees in too. If you go to a park or natural wonder there might be an entrance fee. If you plan on going to museumsetc there are also entrance fees attached to many of those too. Then there’s the toll roads food unexpected expenses etc. Costs also depend on the time of year you come. If you come in December Kansas might be cheaper but Colorado would be more expensive. To see everything you want to by driving you would need to come up with a plan at least one year in advance. You need to plot out the exact route to get there along with at least a couple of back up routes just in case of possible road closures. If you just want to glance through things 3 months might give you enough time. However if you want to take your time exploring 68 months and about $40$50k would be more realistic. And that’s only if you don’t have any medical emergencies which can easily tack $100k+ onto that. This isn’t something you can really do in the fly. Oh you could if you just wanted to drive and didn’t care what you saw or when you got there. However if you wanted to see certain sights you need to have a detailed plan and give yourself wiggle room. I mean could be a couple grand or $20 grand. Look up Philly and Keely on you tube. They are a Scottish couple doing this right now. They bought a cute older rv. Gas alone would be hundreds of dollars. Doing it as cheap and efficiently as possible?. probably doing motorcycle with camping gear. Absolutely no way to get exact cost without knowing exactly what this trip entails. If you want to stop at every place worth stopping itll take 5 lifetimes to make it to new york I crossed Canada a few years ago for $223. Dependa on oh so many factors. About $150 and 10 days if youre crazy enough to do it like these guys and also have the bike and gear already https//youtu.be/Eo_LuVjRK3A?si=vDmex5gRcCs2qlEc Stopping at every interesting place could take years. This is kind of a crazy proposition. There is a huge variation of what this trip could mean to you and what kind of standards you want to experience. On the low end probably at least 24 weeks and several thousand dollars and on the more reasonable high end a couple years and $100k+. This sort of trip would take a lot of work to map out even if youre essentially just driving through. 2700 mile LA to New York. Minimum $400 gas. 40 hours travel time according to google maps. So let’s say 7 days $150 per night hotels. Let’s say 2 roadside attractions at $50 each. Food maybe $80 a day. With incidentals around $3000. Last fall I did exactly this. I left from MA and in about 8 weeks I touched on all 48 lower states. I drive a hybrid so gas was a little easier and I stayed with friends a few times and I camped when in Yellowstone. I spent just under $3000 and it was worth every penny places that travelers usually visit How small do you think the US is? You could spend a lifetime in NYC and not see everything. You could spend a lifetime in Yellowstone and not see everything. It completely depends on what you’re interested in as to what you’ll see and how long you’ll spend. 4 days to 4 months and hundreds of dollars to hundreds of thousands So so many variables I think car or train would be best. Would probably take at least a week and cost a few thousand dollars especially if youre staying at hotels. Assuming you want to stop and enjoy each place fully and you pick the 8 most interesting stops between California and New York… 3 weeks. That’s a wild guesstimate based on my traveling. And also you’re driving your own car which allows you to set the schedule. Money too variable to say. Nice hotels? Hostels? Restaurant choices? A friend of mine and her husband did this as cheaply as possible by camping and eating very cheap food like oatmeal that they cooked themselves. They visited a lot of national parks and also did a lot of free nature hikes all around the states beginning in Florida going all the way to Washington and then back to New York. The whole thing took them about 6 weeks and $4500. I think they stayed in a hotel for about 5 nights total. Hit up r/roadtrip for additional advice if your are legit thinking of doing something like this. LA to NYC on the road is 40 hours. Maybe eight hours a day in the car so 5 days. Add another 5 days to see interesting stuff maybe 10 total days. Youd need maybe $300400 for gas maybe $1000$1500 for lodging food is a big wild card factor could be real cheap if you eat peanut butter and jelly the whole time. Or it could be really expensive always eating at restaurants. And also need money to pay admission to the interesting stuff. A safe bare minimum is $3000 Id say. More money and more time would make the trip way better. You also wanna visit every interesting place on your way There are way too many interesting things to see them all itd take a lifetime. Just going from LA to NYC would take like 40+ hours of just driving and probably $600 in gas depending on the mpg your car gets. I’ve driven cross country a few times generally without the intention of sightseeing along the way. At a minimum you’re looking at about $1000 for food 3 nights in hotels and 150+ gallons of gas assuming 2025 mpg. You could easily triple that amount if you’re stopping to visit places. I’ve also done one cross country trip with my family where we did stop along the way and it took about 2 weeks but we also stayed with friends and family which cut the costs significantly. Finally I’ve done one cross country trip where my wife and I swapped driving across about 2/3 of the country. That was 32 hours of straight driving stopping only for gas and food. I don’t really recommend that but it was cheaper than flying a family of 5. Post 37 Do street takeovers” actually exist in the US? I see social media videos about people taking over intersections to do stunts with their cars Highly illegal and super obnoxious but yes Depends on where you live. In some cities it happens all the time. Other places it’s clamped down on very hard with zero tolerance or no one gives a crap about doing it. It happens pretty much every weekend here in Portland. Yes was starting to happen in Austin every weekend a few years ago until the state cracked down hard on it. Haven’t seen one in a minute here but definitely happens in places throughout the country. Not a part of daily life though. All the time in LA Yes. I have been stuck in traffic due to one in LA. Yes In 41 years Ive never seen it once Its happening tonight in LA. Fiery but mostly peaceful. It happens but not in the majority of the civilized parts of the country Yes. Ive experienced it often living in LA and Baltimore. It is the level of inconvenience as a mosquito... You pull up on it see whats going on then take a different route. Yes. Im a cop and they happen all the time in my city because were forbidden from actually doing anything In Denver they do it on the interstate highways from time to time. Yes. At least in my city. Its usually isolated in lower income neighborhoods In poorly run liberal cities yes that unfortunately happens. To validate my point look at which cities are saying yes. I can say that crap doesn’t happen in Florida. We had a major one here which caused . I would assume normal cities do not have the problem. Yes Never seen it. Ive seen the aftermath including on one of the freeways on my commute. In my county gwinnett county GA yes. When it happens they pretty much send every cop available. Heres a news Yes but youre very unlikely to find one unless you go looking. Yes illegal and the police try to arrest the people involved. Yes check out r/grandrapids Yes at least in Oakland. Sideshows happen every once in a while. Recently motorcycle takeovers have been more popular. Yup. I’ve been stuck behind at least 3 of them commuting in and out of LA. I’ve never wanted to run someone over more in my life. One in Milwaukee WI today. Ive seen it a few times in Dallas. I’ve seen it several times when I lived in Chicago mostly near my wife’s parent’s house on the West Side. yes they happen Ive never seen a street takeover but we do have a bicycle gang that likes to do wheelies in heavy traffic. In Detroit yes They certainly do in Oakland CA Happens every so often in Indianapolis but not frequently. At least not in the areas I’ve lived. I used to know a guy that did them though. Honestly just a bunch of young car guys with more money than sense that like to show off their cars. For the most part they actually stayed respectful aside from the excessive noise but it sure as hell wasn’t safe or legal. I have never heard of it happening in my area Unfortunately Yep Its a big problem in Kansas City yes. They need to arrest all those people. I havent seen that but its a big country. Yes. Here in Houston it’s a huge problem They do happen but Ive never seen one in person and I only know about them from seeing videos on social media same as you. Rarely Yeah. It happened somewhere around here one night. Loud destructive and annoying as all hell. Yep. Annoying. Yes. Ive been caught up in one in Portland. Stuck at an intersection at the corner of North Portland Rd and Marine Drive for like 15 minutes before I realized the cops werent going to break it up. It was a constant nuisance late night in Dallas for at least three years and definitely still happens Yes its happened in my city in Southern California. It even happened outside my office once over the weekend so we only saw the damage on the street when we got in on Monday. Its a lot better now in my city since the police started impounding cars though its kind of like whackamole so the street takeovers just move over to nearby cities once a city starts to crack down. Yes. Happens all the time around the L.A. area. Yes. Depends on the city though not even the size of the city mind you but the car culture inside of it. Never seen one personally but yes In the SF Bay Area these are called side shows”…car based spontaneous with intersections blocked far out. lots of burnout donuts etc. they happen very often are very dangerous and there’s a ton of specific criminal penalties when you eventually get caught including losing your car and license. Id an ambulance or fire truck gets diverted because of it. you can face even more very serious charges. The did it on the bay bridge semi recently CHP seizes 16 vehicles connected to sideshows on Bay Bridge The CHP said officers it took officers about 25 minutes to disperse the sideshow due to all the stopped traffic on the bridge at the time.” Following the incidents the CHP gathered video evidence of the vehicles that were involved including data from cameras placed at cameras around the bridge. Over several weeks investigators were able to identify 23 vehicles that were involved and obtained orders to seize the vehicles from a San Francisco judge.” https//www.cbsnews.com/amp/sanfrancisco/news/baybridgesideshowschpseizes16vehicles/ One time in LA/Hollywood I saw a few hundred People on bicycles own the streets one night. That was fun It’s a very large country with a lot of people so yes this happens. However it’s not common. At least not common enough that I have ever seen it. And that’s in 54 years living in New York Florida Utah and California and having visited most of the other states. Every weekend in Nashville. I’ve never seen it but I always hear about it. I heard about them happening in my city last year with at least one incident taking place in an intersection I frequently drive through. I havent heard anything about them in the news lately though so Im not sure if theyre still a thing. Never seen it happen where I live. Not in the street anyway. Ive seen people doing stupid stuff in parking lots though. I’ll see the aftermath of one on occasion. They happen at night when I’m not out and about. Indeed. Unfortunately. Now to be clear these are isolated and you likely wont run into them. But in large cities they didnt happen. In California its worse as the takeover is oftentimes just roving groups of kids on bikes causing vandalism. They do it way out in the country on highways around here. Some of my local towns shut down street access for festivals on a regular basis where the businesses are still open and you can explore the streets on foot not in cars and vendors and musicians also occupy the street space. This is officially sanctioned rather than illegal activity prompted by citizens. Yep. It was a problem here in CT for awhile. Seems to be a little more under control. Cops seem to try to get ahead of it Yes in my area they do. I’m not out late enough to witness them but I’ve seen posts on Nextdoor 🤣 Almost nightly here in Albuquerque NM. Definitely every single Friday and Saturday night in certain areas of town. When you drive around in the daylight you can see the skid marks and burned rubber in the intersections. Smaller cities in this state do it too. A few weeks back there was a shooting at a car rally where they were having a socalled car show and someone started shooting at rival gang members. It was awful. It’s happened a few times in my town but I haven’t heard of anything like that happening recently here or anywhere else in Connecticut. Ive see a sideshow as we call them here literally outside of my front door. Yeah Mexican Independence Day is full of assholes here in Chicago. They will shut down major intersections. The most recent one they cracked down on though if I recall correctly. Yeah I’ve seen it near some of the bars in Chicago. Usually pretty late. It’s annoying as hell and the crowd reaction is 1/2 Edgarcut Latinos cheering on and 1/2 everybody else rolling their eyes and being rightfully annoyed. Come to Chicago!!! Last year it seemed like every weekend it was being done in the downtown area. This year the police are saying they are cracking down. However its just the beginning of summer so it remains to be seen how effective the cops will be. I live near a highway with a straight on ramp and a traffic light. Fucking street racers piss me off. So annoying at 2am. Thats all covid was... Internet Yes been to a few in LA. Thera also mudding when we took over someone’s farm land. Maybe in Flint or Detroit Post 38 Why are there far more Indians than Mexicans in U.S. higher education despite Indians being a far smaller part of American society? Author bybeso Pretty straightforward answer to this most Indians who come into the US are already highly educated to qualify for visas and green cards. Mexico also sends educated citizens through visas but they are outnumbered by the amount of illegal immigration. There is not as much illegal immigration from India to US since it’s not as practical for them compared to Mexicans. The US is across the world from India while it is right next door to Mexico India has a huge population who learn English and speak it fluently. They also have a strong cultural tradition of valuing higher education to the point of placing incredible pressure on their children to do well in school. These combine to create a situation where there are many people from India wanting to attend higher education in the United States a country whose language they speak fluently so that they can get a good job in the future. Because of the language barrier there are fewer people from Mexico wanting to go to university in the United States in comparison. The Mexicans that came to the US typically did so out of poverty and trying to seek a better life through farm labor or similar work while the Indians that came to the US usually did so as educated people seeking jobs through visas for skilled workers. Theres a ton of issues of around generational wealth poverty and systemic bias involved. Because culturally speaking Indian parents push education on their kids hard. Are there though? The answer depends on whether we are discussing international students or overall ethnic representation. Those are two different populations and numbers. International students definitely more Indian citizens than Mexican citizens in higher education. The reasons have been touched on in other posts English as a language in India especially education which assists with studying in the USA India’s billion plus population higher education in the USA perceived as a stepping point for immigration into the USA and which is believe to lead to financial success so there’s a push from families to study in the USA and more. Numbers from 2024 estimate the number of international students from India are around 330000. Mexican citizens are around 15000. For citizens/permanent residents Current estimates state that 2.4 million Mexican American immigrants are in higher education in the USA. That’s an estimated 17.5% of total number of college students in the USA based on data from 2022. I believe the Mexican American population in the USA is over 37 million. I’m not having success finding the number of Indian Americans in higher education but the Indian American population total in the USA is slightly under 5 million. It’s reasonable to believe that 50% of that number is ***not*** in university/college at this time. So hard numbers show that there are more Mexican Americans in higher education than Indian Americans. Now percentage wise yes Indian Americans definitely overrepresent their population in higher education compared to other minorities. The Indian American population in the USA is one of if not the highest educated ethnic group in the USA. This relates to the reasons for Indian immigration Indian immigration is relatively recent the biggest jump in immigration occurred during and after the 90’s when immigration was primarily professionals immigrating for STEM jobs. I presume college educated parents expect their kids to go to college regardless of ethnicity so the 2nd and 3 generation desis are expected to attend college. So why does it appear that more Indians are in higher ed? Honestly? Confirmation bias US Americans association Indians with higher education/professional jobs in the USA and Mexican Americans are perceived as being working class/day laborers/etc. Add in that many Mexican Americans are white and thus don’t look” Hispanic/latino so they’re overlooked when thinking about high education it *appears* Mexican Americans are underrepresented compared to their Indian American counterparts when in fact they’re not. Because the requirements for Indians to enter is significantly higher so we see the *best of*. Due to the lack of proximity to the US we don’t receive the lesser qualified Indians entering in nearly the numbers as Mexicans. And I don’t mean this in a disparaging way Those Indians that do immigrate here do so because they are focused on higher education specifically when they do. There are more Indians in the world that Mexicans. Many though not all are international students to the US universities. Only the rich educated Indians immigrate here. That’s not the case for Mexicans where the vast majority have a high school degree or less Because Mexicans live in mexico. As a person from Central California…Mexicans are too busy being the labor backbone of our society. Give me 3 dudes who can fix a car build a patio/deck do all the prep work in a restaurant kitchen landscape a 1/2 lawn and make you the best tacos ever over some IT nerd. Cost of getting into the US. Many families migrate from Mexico for blue collar jobs in construction farming service industry. People from India have a higher up front opportunity cost so they are often people of money and education. This is my educated guess. There are several countries like this where they have advantages when coming over such as already knowing the language and/or coming over already with money and education including even having the airfare to even get here. Whereas mexico all someone has to do it come over from the border. Any of them can do it way easier. It probably depends on where you are at. Not just state to state but even city to city. In my home state i see mostly white black and mexicans. To a lesser degree chinese fillipino native americans koreans and japanese. I very seldom see from people from india. When I was living in Utah for a couple years I saw mostly white people to a lesser degree blacks and on the rare occasion native americans hawaiians tongans and samoans First you must understand that not all people who come into the US who speak Spanish are Mexicans. Yes they are Hispanic but most of them are from a variety of countries like Ecuador Honduras Panama Colombia Guatemala Venezuela and just about every country south of the US border. These are all poor countries where gang life is the only way to survive. They come to the US to live a better life to escape poverty and to avoid being killed by their fellow countrymen. There are more Hispanic immigrants here because it is possible to walk here from Central and South America. You cant walk here from India. Also take into account that Indians put a high priority on education. I know that Hispanic people are educated but not as many appear to me to have much higher education in proportion to people from India. Because India is way further away. If an Indian person wants to go to a richer country to do manual labor and send it back to their family as many Mexican immigrants do they have a bunch of options that are way closer to home. The Indian immigrants who do see value in immigrating to the US are usually in skilled fields where American companies are willing to pay top dollar for their skills. Do you mean south asians or native Americans when you say Indians? Post 39 Which states is high school track seen as a bigger deal than baseball/softball? For Wisconsin high school state track 20k is the average attendance for 2 day meet. Baseball and softball stats were not available. But the capacity of stadiums is 6k for baseball and 2k for softball. Edit for spring sports is what this question is asking in Wisconsin this baseball /softball/track Football and basketball are by far bigger. Edit this is for high school sports. Not pros/semi pros also played. You have to keep in mind the track meet has higher attendance mostly because of how many more schools are there You do have to take into consideration the size of the teams if you want to compare the two in terms of attendance. Track teams being 100+ students isn’t really out of the ordinary whereas baseball and softball teams are like 20 tops. Probably none tbh Some areas football is crazy important though In Minnesota for baseball there are about 20k in attendance. There are no other numbers available. But state baseball tournaments are held at the MN Twins stadium whereas track and softball are not. ETA There are at least 1000 athletes at the state track and field meet and about half that for baseball and softball. So having more attendees for track would definitely make sense. My guess would be Oregon because of Nike and their origin there None. Football Basketball and in a few smaller places Hockey and Lacrosse are the biggest HS sports. How many classes are at the state track meet versus baseball and softball? Track generally has more athletes competing which means there’s more parents grandparents etc watching. Football None Baseball High School baseball isn’t really as important as baseball leagues outside of school such as club/summer leagues/legion teams. So there may be places where high school track is more important than high school baseball. Team sports seem to always be a bigger deal socially than individual sports which makes sense. My high school was genuinely very good at swimming and we hardly ever had people not on the team show up to meets but people went to our terrible lacrosse team’s games all the time. I have a friend who was a college track coach and does commentary for college track meets and he seems to revolve around California and Texas. Thats for college stuff though. But none is the answer to your question imo I’ve never known or heard of these sports being a big deal in high school.. No one at my high school cared about baseball. It was mostly basketball football and Cross Country. Kentucky... But I was at the state track meet the same years as Tyson Gay so maybe not a fair sample size None of them but there are also many states where baseball/softball isn’t seen as a big deal either and almost nobody who isn’t attached to one of the players on the teams would ever attend or pay much attention so I guess it would sort of be a tie there. The sheer amount of people competing is just greater. And many people cross train in track/field Go to Texas and you can have attendance of up to 40k people for Highschool Football None Illinois used to be big on high school track too. Baseball in Wisconsin used to be split and had spring and summer seasons. It took away a bit when it truly wasnt all the schools playing at the same time. Baseball is one sport played by 9 people at a time. Track is 20 sports played by 1 or 4 persons at a time. It isnt a reflection of popularity or support for the sport. There could be parents and community members from 50 different schools 8 athletes per heat in track events how many preliminary heats for state? Maybe Oregon because Nike is headquarters there and Phil Knight really likes Track And Field. Nikes first shoes I think were running shoes. Post 40 Is there anywhere where people play ice hockey on lakes that have frozen over? In the mighty ducks kids play ice hockey on a frozen over lakes instead of in a rink but I cant imagine this actually happening anywhere in real life. That movie was filmed and takes place in Minnesota. Guess which state it is not uncommon to see in? lol Minnesota is called The State of Hockey just dont ask us how many Stanley Cups weve won... Many of us grow up playing pond hockey on real frozen lakes and ponds. It’s extremely common in Minnesota. So is walking skiing and driving on frozen lakes. Maine and Massachusetts for sure. I assume other places that have a proper winter. Why do you think this doesnt happen? but I cant imagine this actually happening anywhere in real life. Why not? It happens all the time in places where lakes and ponds freeze over. Kids where I live do it as soon as the ice is thick enough. A lot of people fish through the ice too. Minnesota we even drive trucks out have bonfires and parties out on the lakes when it’s thick enough/cold enough. Michigan Ohio WI and Indiana I have seen it. I’m assuming that you live in somewhere where lakes and ponds do not freeze in winter because that’s the only way I can think of why you can’t imagine this happening in real life” Minnesota is full of pond hockey. In my hometown there’s a patch that’s always kept consistently clear and an old bin full of old sticks kept nearby so anyone with skates can come by and play Yes in really cold states some people make their own small rinks in their yard during the winter as well. There’s a pond hockey tournament in Creede Colorado that’s a lot of fun. I’ve been on a few small lakes around where I live too but once we get too much snow it’s damn near impossible. During summer I dont think so In my town a local radio station annually holds a hockey game on a lake. When I was a kid in northern WI every winter our citys park department would put up frames and flood out the baseball fields at the local parks which would freeze over pretty well. Not necessarily just for hockey for all kinds of ice skating but definitely including hockey. If you live in an area where bodies of water freeze hard during the winter you do all kinds of things on it including hockey. Ice fishing was super popular in more rural areas. Heck some of the rivers used to freeze hard wed walk to school on them rather than the streets it was quicker. I would imagine it was invented on a frozen lake… Ice rinks are obviously very modern so I’d figure any iceskating sport started on natural ice. My cousins grew up next to a lake in northern Illinois just south of Wisconsin. Guess what they did in the winter. Where are you from? When I was a kid we did this in *Maryland* once. Why wouldnt you be able to imagine this happening in places where lakes and ponds freeze over more frequently? Used to play pond hockey in Pennsylvania on the occasions it got cold enough for the ice to thicken up I’m from Massachusetts. It happens here all the time in the winter. Far less often in the summer. Yes in Michigan Wisconsin Minnesota New York North Dakota. Its definitely a thing in the colder states. In my town they even cut a giant circle in the frozen lake and make an ice carousel. People party on it. Lol I never saw anyone playing ice hocky per say but the lakes freeze over in Wisconsin in the winter event the large ones like Lake Mendota surface area of 9740 acres/ 30km2. The main thing stopping people from skating is the headache of clearing off the snow. People will skate in areas that have been cleared though. In other areas people will ice fish build snow men and snow forts and walk across the frozen lake as a short cut Look up where all the D1 hockey programs are... pretty much all in the Great Lakes and New England states. Those are the regions where kids grow up playing pond hockey. Hockey culture thrives where big frozen bodies of water exist. We used to when I was a kid here in Connecticut. I dont see it happening now though. There’s a pond a block from my house in Utah. It freezes over for a couple of months each year and there is a whole crew that clears it of snow and plays pickup games of hockey. I grew up playing pond hockey. It’s very common in Minnesota where the film takes place and in Michigan. I imagine somewhere where lakes freeze over and kids like Hockey. My neighborhood every year makes an ice rink by building basically a giant kiddie pool and letting it freeze. Ice fishing is awesome. These are common where it’s cold Yep. Done it myself a bunch as a kid Wisconsin is was huge in childhood! Yes. All of northern New England. It happens in southern New England when weather allows. New York Wisconsin Minnesota the Dakotas Pennsylvania *Iowa*. Pond hockey happens wherever there are people who play hockey and the ponds freeze hard enough to skate. Every state that starts with M I did that growing up in New England. A long time ago all our high school games and practices took place on a big pond. The rink and portable stands were set up in December and taken down in March. Nobody thought an indoor rink for kids was necessary or affordable. When I was younger in the 60s and 70s we used to ice skate and ice fish on the lake behind my grandparents house all the timenear Milan Indiana. Havent had enough ice to ice fish in over 20 years We played on a flooded field that froze over in northern Illinois plus the little lakes. We had to worry about windows where ice was most likely to be stable enough to walk on in northern Ohio before the winters went schizophrenic in 2013. It was really only possible for a few weeks per year even on ponds where there wasnt any continuously flowing water. But we never trusted it enough to really try playing sports on it. None of the adults liked us even walking on it as a test &amp a couple times our dogs misjudged it &amp fell through anyway. Minnesota but my understanding is that this happens in Northern Europe too? Any people from Finland want to weigh in?? Probably also in North Dakota but there’s so many less people there I just haven’t heard of it. I’m sure this occurs plenty in different regions of Canada as well. People in areas where you can do this know the habits of the ice very well and know when it would be safe I personally have never seen this but I also live in an extremely hot part of the country. I dont see why people wouldnt do this in places where the climate permits. My cousin plays in a pond hockey tournament every year in Colorado. We used to do this in NJ but it rarely gets and stays cold enough for the ice to get thick enough. At least not in the southern part of the state. When I was a kid I lived near a pond and when the pond froze we skated while a bunch of guys played hockey. Sadly the pond doesnt freeze anymore. I have done it in northern Michigan. It’s actually fairly common. We walk drive cars and snowmobiles on them as well. Its pretty normal in Minnesota where Im from. I never did it myself but thats because I wasnt raised to be the sporty type. The Mennonites in the finger lakes of NY play pond hockey. They enjoyed the cold winter we had this year. A couple of the guys I talked said they were playing 23 games a night a few times a week. Minnesota and parts of New York. We played on frozen ponds growing up and there’s used to be an annual pond hockey tournament on Lake Erie We saw it happening in the Hudson River Valley just north of New York City. Being from the southern US I was amazed the first time I saw it in person. When I was a kid in Rhode Island 55 years ago there was a LOT of pond hockey. Not anymore. Too warm ice never gets thick enough. Ive definitely seen it in Wisconsin. people do all sorts of stuff on frozen lakes. ice fishing especially. that was really normal at least in my neighborhood in Alaska. in the summer it was roller hockey I used to ice skate on a pond in Pennsylvania. I’m not a hockey player but could have if I was I suppose In Utah kids play hockey on the lake. In some states where it gets cold enough there are probably lots of them.. in some states its maybe 4030 deg F in the winter so it wouldn’t freeze enough for it to work I went Ice Sailing one January in South Dakota. In states that have ponds that freeze over it is common. In Most of the US it is not. Yes. It happens anywhere lake ice gets thick enough. My ex and his friends used to do it in upstate NY every winter. Massachusetts but not every year. I live outside of Boston and I play on a pond a couple of times a year Lake Morey in Vermont even has regular adult hockey leagues during the winter. Pretty common in colder climates Minnesota Wisconsin northern Illinois Michigan Canada probably upstate New York Maine places like that all get cold enough for pond hockey several months of the year Yes. Its a little warmer now than the old days. But in the north or Canada the ponds freeze and you can skate on them. Some years are better than others. Ideally you want super cold temps and no snow. Even down here in St. Louis it happens on very rare occasions. Normally need to live somewhere way colder for it to happen frequently. In MA towns sometimes have shallow ponds in their parks that are dry in summer often grassy and useable for picnicking/park activities and filled &amp frozen over in winter. Sometimes theyre left asis usable for skating if you like and sometimes theyre actually maintained as pondhockey venues. I also know of 3 or 4 houses within a couple of miles that freeze their own lawns intorinks for their kids if the winter permits. No boards like real rinks have just a few inches of plastic up the sides to hold water long enough to freeze. These may not qualify as ponds but they certainly qualify as random sheets of ice kids can practice their skills on. I have a question about hockey on frozen lakes if you have two goals and a person misses wont the puck go like a million miles in the opposite direction? Or like if you pass and miss wont the puck just kinda float way off away Im just trying to imagine hockey with no fencing or walls The town I grew up in had a town pond that they turned into a hockey rink and a separate skating rink and they also did an annual ice fishing derby every year. The town I live in now kinda does the same thing no fishing derby tho Google ice fishing. But yes in Minnesota which is where Mighty Ducks is based we do skate and fish on frozen lakes. Some ice houses are huge heated etc. but every year someone waits too long to take their house out and it sinks. People do pass away if they go on ice that is too thin. Ice can get up to two feet plus thick on lakes which can support a lot of weight. The DNR has guidelines on how thick ice needs to be to support various activities from walking to driving heavy duty trucks. Pond hockey is absolutely a thing up here. Just watch out for the ice fishing holes. but I cant imagine this actually happening anywhere in real life. So OP just a moron or? I teach in a prominent hockey district in Minnesota. Parents from around the country will try to get their teens into our varsity program because it’s basically a shoein for D1 scholarships and recruitment. They are routinely disappointed to learn that if your kid first started skating at 5 years old that is way too late here in Minnesota. Here in hockey state the second babies can walk they are out in skates. These kids have ponds and lakes in their backyard and they live on the ice. I have families with courts in their backyard they freeze in the winter. Midwest US St. Louis Metro Area My younger brother used to play hockey on the frozen creek behind our house when we were kids in the 1960s and 70s in the Winter We made a ice rink in our backyard. Every Night we would flood it with Hot water from the laundry tub in the basement. Neighborhood kids play hockey and skate all winter! Redford Michigan. You’ll see this just about anywhere where hockey is popular and it’s cold enough to heat good ice on lakes ponds or rivers. Saint ignace Michigan actually holds an ice hockey tournament on Lake Huron in the winter. Why not? In the northern states lakes/pounds freeze over all the time. People have car and snowmobile races on them. As kids in Upstate NY we absolutely played hockey on lakes/ponds. We usually did a weird hybrid of floor hockey and ice hockey because we didnt have skates but still. I used to live near a golf course as a kid and we would play on the ponds in the winter. We would pile our stuff on sleds and drag it out there. I also lived with a creek in the back yard that froze and I would skate on that. It was rougher on my blades though. Yes. Its not uncommon in Michigan tk see kids playing hockey on lakes or even to see someone whos made an ice rink in their yard. All of these blue parts of **** are full of ponds that freeze over all winter and its common for people who live on them to shovel/snow blow off a section wet it down for good ice and make a small hockey rink for kids and not kids. Pond Hockey is huge. In Iowa I grew up skating on frozen ponds. There was a huge warming house built just for this on the river the inlets werent as deep and were still so would freeze well. There was also a shallow pond in the trees behind my house that wed skate around on or play a game of hockey. Hell wed even skate on iced over sidewalks sometimes. Ice skating is a staple outdoor activity in the winter along with sledding and snowball fights skiing takes more planning and equipment. What I will say is that our winters havent been as consistently cold in the last few decades and we dont get the hard freezes like we used to. In Maine for sure Everywhere that lakes amd ponds freeze people will play hockey on them. This is very common. Its a way of life in Canada... Ive played pond hockey on a frozen Lake Superior. Im curious why op thinks pond hockey is such an improbable feat. Why cant you imagine it? Skating began long before artificial rinks were invented in the 1870s. It was a thing when I was growing up in the NE upstate NY but it wasnt super common. Hockey itself wasnt that popular in my city. Yup. Northern NY. Even have tournaments. LOL.. yeah in Minnesota you cant drive more than 510 miles without running into a frozen lake which is suitable for skating and hockey. I mean this literally. Southwestern part of the state is a little less lakey but theyre still there. Whether people actually do that depends on who lives near the lake. But its absolutely possible and absolutely done. Outdoor skating is an important part of our culture. Are you from a tropical country? Playing hockey and skating on ice is common where it gets cold enough for the ice to be thick enough. I grew up in New Jersey behind a lake. We played hockey on it every winter. Basically anywhere up north. My town had a frozen lake people skated on Happens all the time across the Midwest Of course any of the midNorthern states for sure. I grew up in Chicago and I have family in Minnesota and both places freeze enough for ice hockey skating ice fishing you can literally park fullsized pickup trucks with trailers and snowmobiles out there. Pretty much every state where ponds freeze over in the winter. For sure every New England state. I imagine it’s the same in the northern Midwest. I lived in Alaska for 20 years. We did a TON of ice skating on frozen lakes. Yeah sure. Although around here a lot of places have built outdoor rinks so they dont have to. Someone goes out and floods the rink if they plan to use it and thats all. Maine VT Michigan Minnesota upstate NY... But pond ice kinda sucks compared to a rink. We literally have ice road trucking in Ohio sometimes. Trust me a frozen over lake can hold the weight of a couple kids. There are lots of places where that happens. This is a very common thing anywhere hockey is popular that also has small bodies of water and freezing temperatures. Post 41 For the HispanicAmericans on this sub that grew up in Spanishspeaking households is your internal monologue in English or Spanish? Author wiz28ultra Im the opposite. Grew up in anEnglish speaking household now live in a Spanishspeaking household. My internal monologue is usually in English but for soccer dancing and Mexican food it switches into Spanish. Mines in English. Both my parents speak English as well though so I ended up being raised with the two more or less evenly spoken at home. I think my first words were in Spanish. Of course with school being all English that quickly cemented itself as the default and by now my Spanish is honestly getting kinda rusty. Not so much that I can’t respond if spoken to in Spanish but enough to notice. My inner monologue is in whatever language I have to interact in next. If I’m talking to my mom and her friends I’m thinking in Spanish. If I’m at the store about to post I think I’m English unless I’m at the Mexican super market in which case Spanish is it. Just depends. What an awesome question. Ive always wondered Apparently not everyone has an internal monologue. Spanish is my second language entirely learned in school but when I studied abroad in Spain I started thinking in Spanish after a while! I also started dreaming in Spanish which was trippy. It is in English now. Depends on which is easier to think in especially if dialogue is in one language ~or~ figuring out/understanding a difficult situation. No me but my wife Ive asked her the same question. She says she switches based on who she is surrounded by/the environment she is in. Not Hispanic but my girlfriend is. I asked her this question and she said it’s usually in Spanish unless she’s thinking about me or my family. She thinks it’s because she only really speaks to me in English so her brain thinks boyfriend = English everything else = Spanish English. I think it always has been. My mom is Mexican &amp my dad is American &amp doesn’t speak Spanish so I grew up mostly speaking English at home but my mom would speak to me in Spanish. I’m definitely more comofortable in English and my internal monologue is predominantly English but sometimes if I’m thinking about a conversation I had with my mom or something to do with her or that side of the family my internal monologue will switch to Spanish. But only sometimes it’s weird English Shapes and concepts...... It’s in both. I think is because I was exposed to English early on in my childhood. I came here when I was six years old. I was speaking English in a few months. Of course I still spoke Spanish at home and it remains an integral part of my life. It’s my first language. If I’m remembering correctly my internal monologue was in Spanish for many years. Now it’s in both. But funny enough I still like to watch English language media with closed captions lol. It feels odd if I don’t. English I feel that if you master the language at some point you can switch easily to one of them. It is my case. Not Spanish but I grew up in a Portuguese immigrant home. When I was born I spoke only Spanish for the first several years until my parents realized I needed to go to school and so they switched to English in the house. I really don’t remember but I’m guessing before I became fluent in English I was probably monolog internally in Portuguese I do speak both and while I wouldn’t say I’m 100% fluent in Portuguese. I do internally monologue in Portuguese at times but it’s 95% English probably. Spanglish. Random Spanish and English thrown together in the same sentence. My wife says English and that she thinks in English before she speaks in Spanish. I grew up in a bilingual home mother spoke to us only in English whereas dad to spoke to us in Portuguese. My internal dialogue is in English. Mine is English. Both my parents only speak Spanish but they put me in an early start school so I learned English and Spanish at the same time. Idk what my inner monologue was when I was a young child but I quickly got into reading books which were in English. English due to having an overall greater exposure to English through TV video games the internet school and friends. I really only ever speak Spanish with family members. I moved here when I was 13 so for a while it was in Spanish. I think at some point in high school I started to think in English. I feel like a lot of it is exposure Well... I had lived in Mexico since my birth to when I was 12 yrs old and then from 16 to 22. And from 12 to 16 and from 22 to now in the USA I began to learn English when I was 12 yrs old but I stopped using it in Mexico for 6 years. Still My English i keep it because of Internet Friends from Europe. I began to properly talk more in English when I was around 24 yrs old. I can say as well that when I was around 21 yrs old I tried to learn some Italian and since I was 22 I tried to learn German I know very few German but I can recognize the language So here is how I administrate the languages I only Speak Spanish and English And have some notion of German and Italian I use Spanish mainly to talk with family All my notnuclear family is in Mexico and Europe so I talk to them in Spanish as they will probably not speak any of English I also use it as a personal language and a religious language If I pray I will use Spanish. Spanish is also my emotional language I usualy never express my emotions in English And is also the language of my dreams Sometimes I can head some German and then some English. I only use Italian as a pasional and emotional language. If I drink to much and I put music that music will be in Italian. If I know more German I would use it mainly as a logical language. It is very well organized and straitforward I might use it for take logical desitions if I manage to dominate it I use English mainly in stores academia and in jobsrelated things. Is also the language that I use to approach to strangers if I need anything. I would only use Spanish in eldery Hispanics English is not an intimate language for me so I could use it for small talk I cannot do that in Spanish. But if some kind of friendship envolves then I can use it for go deep but that is not common. Specially because is not my emotional language Also a lot of my internal monologues uses math and images. And graphs Now if we talk about Soccer/Football I only can use Spanish... Or British English if I need to Post 42 What are the questions like in american colleges/universities relating to the humanities do you get questions where you have to answer A B C or D? The exam that I am used to in Europe we have cumulative exams where you get one question have to answer in depth over the course of about six hours any topic that the subject had during that semester. To get an A you basically have to describe every factor/relevant topic to the question and discuss/reflect. I have a degree from both continents. The questions are pretty much the same other than that in American humanities programs you are fairly unlikely to have an exam that you do in one sitting and its an athome essay 95%+ of the time. Both are going to be essaybased and ask you to either remember the material or create original research. In general the academic standards of US schools are higher than in the UK in large part because the UK has become a diploma mill for rich foreign students but thats more a UK thing than a Europe thing. Introductory courses may have some exams like that at least partially. After that exams would be more about developing and argument or interpreting sources/documents etc. That is if exams even exist most upperlevel courses would include projects essays research papers or the like instead of exams. [deleted] Most of the time it’s essay questions. Multiple choice is pretty rare Our exams are often a mix of multiple choice and essay questions depending upon the subject. I think that having your entire cumulative exam hinging on one essay question is a bit ridiculous for most subjects. Believe it or not a multiple choice exam that is open book can still be very difficult. Theres a LOT of variation between different classes instructors and universities/colleges. In general my experience in humanities courses at a major university was a mixture of questions on exams with some multiple choice but more essay type questions. Also grades were heavily determined by papers written outside of class during the semester. Theres no simple accurate answer to your question. This is giving me flashbacks to my upper level humanities courses where I had an hour and a half to write three short essay answers for my finals. I would have killed to get multiple choice tests instead of hand cramps. Multiple choice was only for study guides/review. Exams were almost exclusively essay questions. There’s no one type of test. It depends on the subject and professor It greatly depends on the class. Some classes will make heavy use of multiple choice others essay questions and others will prefer assigning papers. Id say that multiple choice is more common in introductory classes where they are mostly assessing if you were vaguely paying attention and are therefore ready for the next class. The questions wont always be easy since there will be some answers that are wrong but designed to look right if you arent paying close attention. But they are more about assessing if you have a decent grasp of the fundamentals rather than if you have mastered the highlevel material. Also the breakdown of how much of the grade is going to be dependent on which assignments will be different in different classes. Ive had classes where the final exam was worth 40% of the grade and Ive had classes where it was worth 10% of the grade. Ive also had classes where the professor told me I didnt need to take the final because I did well enough on other assignments and some classes that didnt even have a final exam. In fact in my experience it seems fairly common in literature classes to not have exams at all. Instead the largest chunk of the grade will come from assigning papers. They work similarly to your singlequestion exams where there is one topic you are supposed to explore thoroughly but you are given much more time to work on it than a single exam period and part of the expectation is that you are going to be doing a bunch of research. How many papers are assigned varies on the class. Ive had classes that assigned one paper and Ive had classes that assigned 5+. The length required on those papers will typically be shorter when there are more papers assigned. The rest of the grade will then be determined through a combination of participating in group discussions and other smaller assignments. I cant say Ive ever had a class that delivered an exam as a single question. Ive had exams that were entirely short answer but those were structured as ~10 questions that you were expected to write a paragraph or two for each rather than one single comprehensive question. For context I did my undergrad in STEM and took a few humanities classes at the time but Im now in grad school for the humanities and I took a bunch of humanities classes after my undergrad to prep for grad school. So Ive had a pretty decent experience with a broad range of classes at different levels and teaching style. Depends. My Old Testament History course final Bible college was to write everything you could remember in essay form stretching from Creation to the Exodus. I know that is niche but it was crazy. my BA isnt in the humanities its in a social science anthropology but I took some lit classes in college. In my experience its really unlikely to have multiple choice exams at these types of classes. I did have a teacher give us multiple choice classes in an anthropology class I took at a community college and I remember finding it really bizarre. So its not impossible but not common in me experience. in my own academic experience the higher you get in social sciences/humanities the less likely youll have to take exams at all. Instead teachers will require research papers in lieu of an exam. The grade will be based not on a single cumulative exam but probably on a formula weighting the different papers youve written throughout the course. Like maybe you wrote five small papers and two big papers the small papers are worth 60% of your grade and the big papers are worth 40% of your grade... depends on the professor. I have a history degree and most things were essay based once you got past your general ed classes everyone takes. The only multiple choice questions I encountered in college were in 100level courses with 60 people in them. Scantron sheets made it easier to grade lots of exams. Once I got to higher level classes it was mostly essays. Especially in history classes. This depends so much on the class the level 1st year versus 4th year the professor and so many other things. Some tests are entirely multiple choice as in your example of ABCD. What you are describing about fully exploring a topic would be either a semester project paper in most cases or potentially a cumulative final exam essay question but those are generally limited to 2 hours and not 6. But there are also capstone projects and other things at the end of a 4 year college term that can be yearlong or full semesterlong projects that are then presented as very long papers. The type of paper you are describing was more common in my Mythology and Philosophy classes but they were never 6 hours in a sitting or anything like that. In one of my classes we did a term paper which was assigned early on but we had 12 weeks to work on it. In mythology we had long essay questions for tests but they were like a few paragraphs so a test might be 34 pages. I have 1 kid in college currently and 1 who has a Masters degree. They both had a large variety of different tests papers and essays. Some of them as long as you do the work you get an A. Some of them are much harder. I had all essay questions in my university exams. No I never had a multiple choice test for humanities in college. I remember studying abroad in Europe for a semester in college. Lots of people made fun of American colleges for having multiple choice questions on our tests. Take a wild guess what the format was for every final I had that semester lol In my undergrad History degree I never had a multiple choice exam and after first year we stopped having exams. We typically had a few shorter papers throughout the semester one medium paper as a midterm and then one long paper as a final. In higher difficulty classes there was usually an independent research component of the final or both the final and midterm. I went to a small liberal arts college so professors had fewer students and the time to grade all those papers though. I don’t know if it differs at larger universities. It depends on the professor. It highly depends on the school and the teacher. There is no standard even among professors in same department at same university. But for a humanities class it’ll mostly be writing whether it’s research papers or inclass written essay exams. I did a humanities undergrad program in the US. Multiple choice questions only really showed up in entrylevel courses that nonmajors people who were not primarily studying that subject might also take to fulfill degree requirements. Slightly higher level courses might have you do quizzes or exams at midterm but even those would be shortanswer at the least and would still usually have at least one fullfledged essay question. Even then the final exam for those classes was still going to be a paper. Once you get to junior and senior level third and fourthyear courses pretty much all of your points come from your ability to write and to a lesser degree speak about the material and maybe some class participation points if the class is particularly discussionfocused. Essays were done outside of class thoughyou were usually given a few weeks notice and the due date was typically during finals week. My daughter is a humanities major most of her tests are essays. She does them at home and turns them in. She did have an in person test on her Shakespeare class but even that was a bunch of essay questions. She had multiple choice abcd in math and science. Q Which of the top level comments in this post that attempt to directly answer the title question have valid substantiation? 1 All of them 2 Some of them 3 None of them 4 How the heck should I know? Varies greatly by the university and the course. Ive had courses like history of western civilization 1 and 2 which required basically writing an essay on a given prompt in a timed situation. Other times Ive had multiple choice question but the exam did not count nearly as much as papers did. My undergrad was from a private university and my graduate program is with a state university. It varies by class/professor what sort of test you have. When I took art history in college our final exam had a mix of multiple choice questions and 24 essay questions. If I remember right we were given a study guide of the potential essay questions in advance so we weren’t blindsided but had to actually write the essays during the test time which was not 6 hours. We had a final long paper on a topic that was a big part of our grade due at the end of the semester it was not about something covered in class but a topic we researched on our own. You were supposed to spend all semester working on it. I went to several universities in my educational journey. So I feel fairly confident in saying this. Once you are out of General Education courses you will not see many multiplechoice questions. Most will be paragraphstyle questions. Most of my exams on the BA level Humanities/Social Science were multiple choice but few of my classes had exams. More commonly our grade was based on one or more essays of varying sizes completed throughout the semester. The first time I had a substantial sit down and write essays in the exam room not a single allencompassing question but maybe 34 on various topics type exam was in graduate school which was not in the US but even there some classes had a multiple choice exam others had questions to be answered in a paragraph or two and many just had final projects In the humanities we don’t get multiple choice questions no. My college was a little different than others but most of the time I had a final paper assigned instead of having a final exam. We call those multiple choice tests and no they are not what youd encounter in higher education here. My daughter just finished 9th grade. Her final exam for her English class was a long research essay that she had to write outside of class and was based on a topic they had been studying at the end of the year. I had one exam for a very rigorous discussion course on Italian Fascism in which we were tasked with writing our own essay question and then also answering it. We were graded on both the quality of the question as well as the quality of the answer we gave. I think that was one of only two or three essay questions on that final. That was probably the hardest class I took in college but it was very well taught. It depends on the school you go to and the level of courses you are taking. Our Bachelors degrees are 4 years not 3 years. The first year is mostly dedicated to raising the level of general education and teaching critical thinking skills such as analysis and evaluation to students so everyone has the same level of knowledge and skills as they move into more fieldfocused courses. This is necessary because each state has its own system of elementary and secondary education thats 50 different systems! and some do a better job of teaching kids basic information and critical thinking skills than others. In the first year of college it is not unusual for multiple choice questions to be paired with shortanswer and essay questions as well as larger projects and presentations. As students move into the second third and fourth years major assessments tend to be essay questions papers and projects though we often use smaller multiple choice assessments periodically throughout the semester so students get feedback on how well theyre learning the material. Final exams are usually though not always cumulative and students are expected to show that they understand ALL of the concepts that have been taught during the semester. Indepth explortion of a specific topic is usually again not always reserved for the final year in college in a senior thesis. The reason its so variable is again state colleges and universities are run by the states. So again we have 50 slightly different systems. Additionally we have a multitude of private colleges and universities some of which are some of the best in the world others of which are horrible degree mills whose degrees arent worth the paper theyre printer on. Post 43 How often do you eat rice? In what manner do you usually eat rice? Im interested in hearing how most Americans eat their rice and to what degree. I also wanna find out who the heck actually eats rice as a tiny little *side*. I see this in platters and its confusing. Im just supposed to eat a scoop of rice? Rice is a staple food of mine. Since going plant based it probably makes up most of my diet. Usually I make rice with beans or white rice with beans on the side. May make fried rice using leftover rice sometimes. Rice is the main dish on the platter not a side. I eat rice almost everyday. It’s more than the average American does. I do a lot of rice and beans or stir fries. Also I think my rice cooker is one of the best kitchen gadgets I’ve ever gotten. Eh. Once a month or so…When i get Chinese food or chipotle. Rice as the side or a base probably twice a week. Rice as a main I have never done that not a single time. As a vehicle for other foods 12 a month? Not often. Rice in a bowl with melted butter. Heaven. All the time in Cajun and creole food like red beans and rice gumbo jambalaya and boudin as well as in Mexican and Asian dishes. Mostly as Krispies. The fact you specify white rice over rice tells me you eat more rice than the average American I dont know how often. Never thought about it. Ill use it when making something like chicken katsu or gumbo at home. There is also a Spanish rice i like to make. Boyfriend also wants to make more red beans and rice. And always when ordering from Asian restaurants. Id say about 56 times a month. # Rice is great if youre really hungry and want to eat two thousand of something. Mitch Hedberg My family probably eats rice twice a week on average. We do a lot of those 90 seconds in the microwave pouches of wild/flavored rice as a side or will make instant jasmin rice and use it as a base for a meat/veggie stir fry a lot. Multiple times a week usually with black beans and some sort of meat. All the time. I’d say I have rice for/with dinner ~34 times week and then the leftovers for lunch the next day. I eat it a ton of different ways but the most common are with stir fry with beans and veg in tacos or burritos and with baked or roasted veggies. I would say a pretty high percentage of what I go out to eat for includes rice too Indian curries Thai curries Chinese food etc I think it depends on where you’re from. Rice is a staple in southern cuisine and we grow it here. I’m from southeast Texas and eat it multiple times a week sometimes just as a side of white rice sometimes some form of rice and beans red beans pinto jambalaya dirty rice Mexican rice arroz con pollo or utilizing leftover rice for fried rice or rice pudding. As a side with most meals. This post is reminding me I need to eat today 😭 I make rice 23 times a week plus leftovers after that we are all white live in Utah. I make a variety of dishes from Asian style to risottos to lemon garlic rice my favorite under fish honestly Very white American here. Were probably not the norm I know were not but we eat rice 34 times a week. Sometimes plain but typically with some sort of stir fry or curry dish. Last night we made Thai red curry Monday we made a Burmese meal with a beef stir fry and a chicken curry. We frequently make Korean bibimbaps. Our version of a pot luck is a stir fry with a Chinesestyle brown sauce and whatever meat/veg we have lying around. I eat a lot of rice and rice products. Having a gluten allergy and unable to eat wheat rye barley or triticale and some oats kind of limits my grain options. Plain rice. With butter salt and pepper. With shredded chicken mixed vegetables and gravy. Spanish rice. Chicken and rice soup. Porcupine balls meatballs with rice mixed in them cooked. Tomato soup with rice. Fried rice chicken/pork/beef/shrimp/vegetable. Mixed in with Mongolian or Szechuan beef. Yellow rice. Rice pudding. Also put rice in with the ground beef for making stuffed cabbage rolls. In the filling for baked stuffed peppers. Red beans and rice. Gumbo. Jambalaya. And rice noodles. Not very often. I too am plantbased but potatoes are my staple carb not rice. Especially as I want brown rice not white and it’s got a lot of arsenic in it. My house usually always has rice in the rice cooker and will stay warm for quite some time we just add some water if the rice gets to hard. Use it as a snack rice pudding sides for meals. It is very versatile. This definitely isnt normal though. I eat rice with Id say 45 meals a week. How all depends on what Im feeling up to making. Often Ill do a beans and rice dish sometimes Ill do a Spanish rice as a side dish other times Ill make a curry and use rice as the base. I personally dont wash my rice as a like to toast it with spices. I know most people prefer it washed but I havent noticed enough of a difference in texture to make me feel like I have to wash it nor is there anything in the way of sand or small rocks that need washed out I eat it a lot but usually as a side with Meals it is 34 times a week. Usually just white rice. About once a week it’s the main one of my meals is fried rice etc with old rice Every day. Latin male in South Florida. Actually probably with every lunch and dinner tbh Once a month. Brown rice when I make stir fry. Every time make rice at home I have it with a protein like chicken. I often buy premade sauces to put onto the rice from Target which is easy and relatively cheap though I’m sure there’s tastier ways to do it. I’d say maybe 1/3 of my dinners have rice in them. I use white rice Not really a rice person. The only rice I’ll eat is pork fried rice” New York Chinese food. Youre going to get confused answers here because to a lot of Americans rice will just mean plain rice. Things like fried rice risotto biryani etc. wont be what people have in mind if you just say rice. For me rice as a side several times a week as part of a main dish like one of the above every couple weeks. As a side dish I mostly eat plain rice somewhat less often I do rice and lentils cooked in chicken stock or rice with onions peppers and black beans. If Im cooking on my own my most common main course rice dish would be risotto or maybe fried rice. I also do a lot of greens+grain bowl type food with rice leafy greens and then some kind of protein with a sauce or salad dressing on top. Also I agree that places that give you rice as a side give you way to little. When I eat rice I want a mountain of that shit. I eat rice tacos. Brown and black rice Rotel navy beans sweet corn and lime on flour tortillas smeared with honey at the top. How often do you eat rice? Multiple times a week In what manner do you usually eat rice? I dont understand this question Rice is definitely a side. I feel offended if served a huge plate of rice. It’s like telling me to eat bread and water for dinner. Most of my plate put should have veggies not starch. I avoid rice like the plague. It’s like cheap filler for me. Unless I’m eating Chinese. Then I definitely want rice mixed in. Everyday. At least twice a day. Even at McDonald’s I will get rice for breakfast sometimes. I eat rice the way folks in Dongbei do. It’s a palate cleanser in between bites of spicy food. Giant plate of vegetables with some sort of protein added and then a little bowl of rice to clear the heat when needed. I try to avoid any white rice as its empty carbs to me so I dont eat it often if at all. Sometimes brown rice in Mexican dishes as a side or in a burrito or with my chinese dishes. Typically have rice multiple times per week. Usually in a bowl with some kind of meat We eat it probably 3 times a week. Probably bc we’re Hispanic a lot of our recipes have rice. i eat wild rice a few times a week and usually make myself a big bowl with just some salt and butter in it. This will probably sound especially American but I like cheesy rice or just plain white rice that I add a lot of butter and salt and pepper. Its just a vehicle for butter and salt basically. Itll be the starch of a meal so Ill make it or couscous or pasta or potatoes or serve with bread depending on the meal. Maybe make grits quinoa instead. I have sushi at least twice a week Mexican and hawaiian an additional day or two a week. So three or four days a week I have rice. We usually make a risotto or vegetarian unstuffed peppers at least once a week. We might have a little brown rice on the side with a little butter and salt but very very rarely. Like less than once every 6 months. I mostly eat extra long grain Indian basmati rice cooked in a Zojirushi rice cooker. In the winter 2 or 3 times per week. In the summer maybe once per week. Personally I almost never eat rice. Maybe a couple times a year I get sushi but other than that not at all. Never MAYBE once a month sometimes less. If you ask people in Hawaii youd get a very different answer than most of America. Were out here eating rice multiple times a week some families every day. Im diabetic and white rice is rough on my numbers so I do have to limit myself to a small scoop. I go heavier on the veggies and protein to make up for it. Sushi is like a onceamonth splurge that involves taking an absolute metric fuckton of insulin and checking my numbers frequently after. Post 44 What are some interesting familial naming conventions in your family? I was just having a conversation with some friends whose grandparents were 2nd generation immigrants from Scandinavia where all the siblings names started with the same letter 10 kids starting with V and 6 kids starting with W respectively. Another friend whose family is originally from the South chimed in that all the oldest daughters in her family share their maternal grandmothers name going back several generations. My dads side were Methodists who converted to Catholicism so all his family goes by 2 different first names one Methodist and one catholic. Does your family have an interesting naming convention for first names and do you know the origin? In Acadian families it used to be that all the boys were named Joseph and all the girls Marie. Obviously this would be confusing so everyone just went by their middle names. For example my grandmother’s name was Nannette but her actual name was Marie Nannette. Over time this shifted because it’s kind of a silly way to do things and they just started putting Marie or Joseph as the middle name. If you go up to northern New England you will encounter a lot of people with Marie or Joseph as their middle names Middle names get passed down in my family Its sort of fallen off but on one side of my family strict Roman Catholic several of whom were clergy children were named for the Catholic saint on whose feast day they were born. My uncles name followed this tradition but only because he was named for my grandfathers uncle who had the same birthday. My maternal grandma comes from a very rural part of Hawaii and shes number 12 of 13 children. I guess back then it was common to guess the spelling of unfamiliar names its a Norwegian last name so some of her siblings birth certificates have their last name ending in ...son and some have it spelled ...sen. When we have family reunions or try to do genealogy things we have to ask are you from one of the os or es? My grandmother was the youngest of 3 her middle name is Louise. She had three kids of whom my mom is the youngest. My moms middle name is Louise. My mom had three kids the youngest my little sister has the middle name Louise. My sisters and i are named Casey Cassie Caitlyn Courtney Cortlyn and Cory and all of our middle names are Charles 😂 My father is one of nine children. Each of them had at least four kids sometimes many more. This means that I have over fifty first cousins on that side of the family. Among my cousins there is a great deal of variation in the male names. For some inexplicable reason there are only six female names in use in varying permutations. Think Sarah Marie Marie Kate Kate Sarah Kate Marie etc. These are not actually among the six names used. The most annoying part is theres *no real reason for this*. Its just some inexplicable mass insanity and all of the aunts/uncles deny coordinating it or purposefully perpetuating it. My own parents argued for months over my name trying not to use names from the rotation and then gave up when I was born and they still couldnt agree and used two names from the rotation. First born male gets fathers identical name but with an ever increasing suffix. Most people stop at Jr but now its starting to look like the first born sons are from royal decent lmao Spoiler our family is not royalty lmao In Greek families traditionally the oldest son is named after the paternal grandfather first daughter after paternal grandmother second kids go to maternal grands. You end up with a lot of cousins having the same name lol What’s a Methodist name and how does it differ from a Catholic name?? Women’s names in my family often get passed down as middle names to granddaughters. I think it’s a nice tradition. Nice try Mr Hackerman McPhisherson. Every middle name is a Catholic saint I am a pseudo Jr. I share the same first name as my father but am not a true junior because I have a different middle name. One or two *given/first names* + a *middle name* which is the maternal maiden surname + a *last name* which is the paternal surname. Example Bill Farmer marries Nellie Rancher. They name their daughter Mary Sue Rancher Farmer. *[in this example the names were changed to protect the innocent]* My husbands family alternates names for example not real names Jonathan and Thomas each generation just swapping the first and middle names. So my husbands name is Jonathan Thomas his dad is Thomas Jonathan his grandfather was Jonathan Thomas again and now his nephew is Thomas Jonathan. My great grandmother was one of ten children. Their parents named them alphabetically first and middle name starting with ‘A’ next kid was ‘B’ etc. If your name ends in the letter y we add an e to it Bettye Lucye My dads family all the boys except him for some reason all have middle names that start with J and go by their middle names. My family all D and go by our middle name. It appears to have ended with us though. Recently we’ve named all our cats with names starting with D”. So my grandmother has her mother’s middle name as her middle name. My mother has her grandmother’s first name as her first name. I have my mother’s middle name as my first name and my grandmothers middle name as my middle name. I also have my great grandmother’s middle name as my middle name. Quakers / later Southern Baptists My friend and his siblings all have names starting D.” In my family I some of us have two middle names. And that’s unusual because we have 0 Spanish heritage. My family had a tradition on my Dads side that everyones initials spell something HAT RAT TNT. My husbands family had the first male with the same first name but different middle names. When we had a son it was challenging to meet both familys traditions but we found a way. On my moms side the tradition was that the first boy and first girl were named after their paternal grandparents. Then the second boy and second girl were named after their maternal grandparents. Then it went to paternal and maternal aunts and uncles in order of birth. If you ran out of aunts and uncles then you move onto great grandparents and great aunts and uncles. A lot of the men in my family going back several generations were given their mother’s maiden name as a middle name. I don’t think it’s entirely unique I know other families do this too. My parents didn’t because my mom’s adoptive father was a massive asshole. But she made contact with her biological father when I was a baby and he’s a completely wonderful person so I’ve contemplated adding his last name as another middle name. Across 3 generations many of us have unique or made up names but some of our names rhyme just starting with a different first letter not in a sibset. We would be roasted on r/trajedeigh but I have always appreciated having a unique name even if it means correcting people. It is kind of the same vibe as Lord of the Rings dwarves. on my moms side of the family almost all of the girls names end with uh in some way including me! ex selena aliyah makenna Not my family but I knew a Carlee who had a sister Mandee and daughters Brylee and Kynzlee. Not sure if it will keep going. In my immediate family weve decided to share middle names. My husband and son have the middle name Daniel and my daughters is Danielle Father or Mothers first name as Son or Daughters middle name. So not a junior *exactly* and this is VERY common in our family where I considered it myself but gender swapping similar names so fathers first name changed to the effeminate version for a daughter as an example. This is always for the first born of that gender Our family has also used aunts and uncles names for nieces nephews my husbands name is his two uncles names. Using cousins names for your child my husband now has a first cousin once removed the child of his cousin named after him who is also in turn named after him and his cousins uncle because my husband is named after him 😩 he no longer speaks to this cousin because his extended family is kind of lowkey insane. We even have siblings naming their children THE SAME NAME especially when they are distant in age 15+ years this happened twice in the past 25 years. One of those instances is my younger brother named after our cousin from my mothers sister. We do plan to name one of our children a similar name to my first cousin once removed who is already 25 years old as my cousin is 15 years older than me. We are going for a common nickname and the legal names would be different. This would be considered normal with permission and was intended to keep extended families connected and confusion at large. My father was named after his father although he never went by Junior?. HIS father was named the Americanized version of his own fathers name. It went like that for a couple of generations back. My parents first child was a stillborn baby boy. I believe he was born pretty close to fullterm if not right at full term so they had to buy a cemetery plot and bury him. They did not name their baby boy. I think they were saving the name in hopes that they would eventually have a baby boy but they were only able to have me a female. My motherinlaw was a very strong opinion that every baby deserves its own name. In her world that meant you couldnt name the kid Jackson if the people who lived nextdoor to 30 years ago now lived in another state and city on Jackson Street! Or if someone had a Jack Russell terrier and you knew that person you couldnt name your kid Russell. It was a royal pain in the ass to find names that she couldnt link to SOMETHING. Oddly my husbands only sibling his sister didnt have to follow these rules. I was smarter when we had our second kid and didnt discuss names with anyone. It was easier the second time around because we were living with her the first time and then when we had the second she was living in a different state. All of my fathers brothers who had sons gave their sons their same names but they each went by a different version of the name. Like William/Will/Bill or ANTHONY/Tony or John/Jonathan Pete/Peter etc. Only one of my my moms brothers had boys but he had three. One of his boys had the same first name as our shared grandfather though its my maternal grandfather and his paternal grandfather. One of the other boys had my aunts maiden name as his middle name. I cant remember what the other ones middle name was. He died when we were young. My family has done the grandma middle name thing. My mom gave us kids names that start with the second letter of her name. I didn’t do it on purpose. But my kids have names that start with the second letter of my name also the first letter of my mom’s name. but always my kids would need to give their kids names that start with the letter U. So this will probably end. Yeah I don’t know why but my family has German names even though we’re not German. But at least we’re not like this one family my dad knew which had two sons named Hitler and Himmel. This was in Asia. My girlfriend is also an oldest daughter shares the same name first and middle family. She likes learning about what the other ones did. We no longer have any of the old major naming traditions in practice in our family other than one of the daughters will get a mothers name or a similar version to it and the men are given their fathers name as a middle name. On my husbands side the oldest boys also get a version of the fathers name. There used to be lots of double names or people went by their middle name either because their first names were a baptismal/Christian name or to differentiate themselves from all of their immediate family and relatives with the same name. For generations my family only used a total of 78 names in each family line repeating each generation even the ones who had 10+ kids. Not surprising since a few of their home towns only had about 2025 names in rotation at a given time. This started fading out of practice in the late 1800s/early 1900s when the family finally started introducing some fresh new names into their gene pool... Surprisingly though my Irish family members were the most relaxed with traditional naming patterns despite this being so entrenched in their culture compared to how many of my Sicilian German and French families were hard core about this. In my husband’s family all the boys’ names start with their dad’s first initial and his sister’s name starts with their mom’s first initial. One of his brothers has 8 kids the boys all start with one letter and the girls with another. My father in law died about 30 years ago and each of his kids us included have a child with his name as a middle name. His name is usually male but can be female so we gave it to our daughter as her middle name. Our oldest son has my dad’s middle name and our youngest shares a middle name with my beloved aunt who died a few months before he was born and then he was born on her birthday. Her middle name is one that can be male or female depending on spelling so we spelled it the male way for him. Not specifically my family but in Ashkenazi Jewish tradition children aren’t named after a living relative though sometimes two cousins might be named after the same deceased ancestor. Sephardic tradition is different but I think they still wouldn’t name a child after a parent. For six generations we’ve fallen into naming everyother male descendant the same. So XYZ I fought in the civil war his grandson XYZ II fought in WWI and his grandson was XYZ III. I’m halfway expected to name my son XYZ IV. In our family the fathers name is his first sons middle name. My family is ItalianAmerican. For my grandparents generation and older it wasnt unusual for girls to have Mary /Marie/Maria as a first name and a different name as a middle one. Boys were usually named in this order first son was named after one grandfather and the second after the other. The Maryasafirstnameforalldaughters died with my moms generation. Shes the only one of her siblings with that as a first name and of her female first cousins theres only one that has it as a first name as well. Out of my cousins 1st cousins once removed going up or down as well as my second cousins I have that same older cousin 1st once removed upshes my moms first cousin and Im the next generation down and a younger cousin shes the daughter of one of my first cousins with it as a first name while the rest of us either dont have Mary/Marie/Maria as a name at all OR its our middle name if we do. A lot on my dad’s side go by their middle names The men/boys tend to have biblical/traditional names while the women/girls tend to have unique names. I know a family that gave their kids names that start with the letter R. Raymond Reese Richard Robert Ryan Rita Renee Russell Rachel Riley Ronald Ruth etc. In my moms family all 18 kids have their mothers maiden name as their middle name. Those kids then gave their kids their moms maiden name as a middle. Like Mary Jones Smith then her kid would be Bob Smith Johnson then his kids would get his wifes maiden name as their middle. I did not do this. As far as my cousins go most continued it but a few of us did not. My kids always joked they would do it theyre boys and joked they would only have kids with women who had good last names. So far no grandkids for me. My grandfather was Indian but gave all of his kids Persian names becuase he read the Shanameh and thought all the names were cool. In the Southern US we often use maiden names as first names. I recently found out that a section of my family GreatAunt both her sons went by their middle names as did her husband. Both sons have family first names and nonfamily names as middle names that they use. I was 51 when I discovered that. One of her grandsons has continued the tradition with his twins. A grandmother with Swedish descent is called *Mimi*. A Jewish grandfather is called *Papa*. My niece and nephew have a papa a mimi and grandpa and grandma. Each grandparent has their own designation. Thats kinda cool. Edit My middle name is my grandmothers maiden name. I was told it was a tradition. Six generations of my mother’s family matrilinearly used the name ‘Loretta’ as either a first or middle name for the firstborn daughter my generation was the first to not do so. In my dad’s family sons always got their mother’s maiden name as a middle name up until my dad’s generation. So yeah we had traditions but none of them have made it all the way through. I started a naming practice in my family which is a shortened version of our very complex and often mispronounced last name. It started in high school and progressed in the military as I said Hi I’m Sergeant last name but you can call me Sergeant shorter version of last name.” Since then my Dad and two brothers have adopted it to the point where now when we are with friends we all know and they say our shortened version to us we all ask WHICH ONE!?” Me my father and his father all have the same name. Just with my dad having the suffix II and I have the suffix III Maybe that counts? I have a medieval High German name that will likely stick around forever since it’s been in the family hundreds of years already. I guess it beats some contemporary or biblical name. It translates to renowned leader” so that’s another plus I suppose. Not a tradition. Just a coincidence. My older brother and I are both named after family members whose names both start with the letter C. So when our sister was born and our parents gave us permission to name her? We had to go with a C name. So we are all C names. My fiancé’s family likes to use maiden names from the maternal side as first first and/or middle names Walker Bridges. My family likes to pick names based on what the meaning of the name is Destiny Hannah. My fiancé and I are picking a first name that we like that has meaning to us and a middle name from the family as a compromise. My cousin did something interesting on her own. The first letter of the next kid’s first name had to start with the first letter of the previous child’s middle name. Both first and middle were the names of Saints. Im into genealogy and on one side of my family theres been a tradition where the father and one of his sons will have the same names Michael Edward but switch the order every generation. So my great grandfather was Edward Michael his father was Michael Edward his father was Edward Michael and so on. There are some branches that are continuing to use Edward Michael and Michael Edward but they arent switching back and forth each generation though. Ive always kind of loved that tradition although it did make genealogical research hard. All boys get the same middle name In my family first names are Bible names and middle names are family names Not super interesting but seems like the men get their dad’s name as their middle name. My middle name is my dad’s first name. His middle name was his dad’s first name. Etc. Just recycling biblical and saint names for all the kids. Throw some family last names in as middle names and we’re all good. Theres a whole line of my family where the name William Jordan and Jordan William get repeated for generations. If the dad was named William Jordan \[last name\] then his oldest son would be named Jordan William \[last name\] then Jordan William would name his oldest son William Jordan. Im related to one of the daughters of a William Jordan so I dont know if the tradition is still going. How can you have a catholic and a Methodist name? My wife’s family has named most every firstborn son David for going on 400 years since they had one famous ancestor. Everyone goes by their middle name. We dont do anything too weird we have a few middle names that get used a lot my son me my dad have the same one plus one of my cousins since my aunt liked it but thats about it. Every first born boy in my family is Michael dad’s side. My brother my dad grandpa and greats. Also every girl in my family has the middle name Marie mom’s side. Me and my sisters cousins mom aunts. We’re Italian on both sides. Possibly most unique is that my mom gave each of her three kids two middle names our second middle names are surnames from other parts of the family that are either uncommon or were dying out given the maiden name thing. So because my maternal grandfather only had daughters and had no close siblings I got his last name. My middle sibling got my maternal grandmothers maiden name her only brother has no kids and my youngest sibling got my paternal grandmothers maiden name that one is still being passed down but its a pretty unique name in the US. Post 45 Why are so many kids packed into one school? Normal cities not super dense areas. Instead of 25003000 kids 8001000 per year group If there were only 450600 150200 per year group there would be substantially less travelling closer knit community still diverse less antisocial behaviour like littering graffiti as teachers recognise kids schools can specialise sports stem humanities arts with dedicated facilities reduced distance between classes All schools offer a core well rounded education there are just more classes offered within their specialty. what’s the reasoning behind these huge schools? All I can think of is the range/quality of facilities because of such a large population but this is definitely defrayed by having specialist schools. What do you mean substantially less traveling? My highschool was like 2 miles away. There were 3 highschools within a few mile radius. 5 if you count the private schools. Each had a few thousand kids. You know we have a LOT of people here right? Going from a 2500 person high school to multiple 450 person high schools would mean you would need 6x the teachers 6x the staff 6x the facilities…. It’s cheaper. Having a bunch of small school buildings would cost more for the property itself maintenance. Janitorial admin staff etc.. There were 5 high schools in my medium sized city with 4800+ students. This does not include the private schools. You are over simplifying. 1. Several of these are highly arguable. You’re advocating for a neighborhood school model. Would it be as diverse? Frankly usually not at all. You’d have only the kids from a very small area. There’s little evidence you’d have less bad behavior very little evidence whatsoever. 2. Schools can specialize but they can also offer fewer things. If you have 10 kids at each of 8 schools who want to be involved in a major theater production you can’t do much. If you have 80 kids at one big school you can have a huge theater department with lots of opportunities. Same for everything else. Plus at least some of the schools need to be general not magnet. You can place magnet programs within the larger school and allow kids to access those benefits magnet schools vs magnet programs within schools is a major point of debate. 3. The buildings themselves are more expensive. Building and operating a bunch of small buildings is a lot more expensive side than one large building. This increases quickly when you start thinking of nonclassroom space. Eight full gyms eight full cafeterias eight sets of athletic fields eight independent science lab systems gas infrastructure chemical infrastructure et eight sets of IT infrastructure etc. 4. Staffing is more difficult and duplicative right principals extra guidance councilors etc. Instead if staffing a math department that teaches 800 kids per grade you need one that serves only 150 kids per grade. You’re gonna have subjects where a teacher who could be serving 150 kids is still a full FTE for 90. I could go on for awhile tbh. These effects are most pronounced at the secondary level where more extracurricular opportunities class choice infrastructure facilities etc are needed. Elementary schools are MOSTLY just a lot of classrooms with a few small things like a cafeteria a gym a playground etc. This is why it’s frankly standard to have a bunch of smaller elementary schools that are closer to neighborhood schools and then as you go up in age you consolidate into much larger secondary schools. closer knit community still diverse Are you sure about this one? My high school with \~1200 students so in between your ranges was very diverse because it had both affluent and less affluent neighborhoods under one roof. If it were split into 24 smaller schools certain of those smaller schools would end up being the good schools and the less good schools schools can specialise sports stem humanities arts with dedicated facilities This is not true at the 150200/year level. My school district had 500/year between 3 high schools and all the specialty courses were taught at a separate central location. We travelled 40 minutes to get there. More kids means the opportunity to specialize in the same location with less travel. Smaller class sizes require more teaching staff support and admin plus more buildings. Its all about the cost. Its why rich people in America send their kids to schools with a teacherstudent ratio of 110 or less. I just left a school with about 450 students. Plus I went to a grade school with about 20 kids in my grade. There are definite cons. Everybody knows everyone’s business and they all have opinions. It’s closeknit until it’s not haha. Also larger schools 1000 students plus will also have more faculty to provide more course offerings as well. Specialized high schools mean a lot more traveling not less Students have to get to the specific high school they want rather than the general high school nearest them. And many small buildings are way more expensive to run than fewer big ones. Also the eight public high schools in my midsized city have about 8001500 students each in them not 25003000. I don’t think it takes the farthest kid more than 40 minutes on the public bus with transfers to get to school. I’m not sure where you’re getting your information about American schools. My high school DID have about 400 students. There was one for the district with four elementaries and one middle school its since dropped to two elementaries. Urban schools there are even more schools per capita and it doesnt solve any behavioral issues. Teachers know who the kids are thats not the cause of discipline problems. Specializing can happen but only in VERY large urban areas where you wouldnt be wasting tons of money for infrastructure staff and utilities for maybe twenty theater and music kids in one school and fifty sports kids in another. And youd still need all the things from a consolidated school at each one because everyone still has to meet state standards for math social studies PE testing etc. So now you have MORE staff. Meanwhile in rural areas the only place bussing is REALLY a consideration the reason some kids may have to ride two hours or you have one high school split between two counties is if you didnt you would probably have to go back to oneroom schools with one or two teachers for K12 or whatever the new cutoff age would be with a dozen or two kids in them. And then the minute your age demographics changed that school might be obsolete and now you have to close it and move somewhere there are more kids. It all comes down to funding. Educational departments can only provide enough funding for the established schools in their jurisdiction. In my home county theyve been adding a new school every 2030 years to deal with crowding. Smaller schools do not curb antisocial behaviors. My high school only had 400 students per grade and we had regular fights graffiti and general misbehavior. Classes were still a great distance from each other as we had each department in their own wing. We immigrated from Norway to the US. The big schools here provide a lot more specialization options than we had at smaller schools in Norway. Substantailly less travelling is kind of overblown. By car the schools are roughly 15 minutes apart from each other. People usually live within a 78 minute radius of the school. Spending that much money money to open 6 more schools so that kids can live in a 34 minute radius instead makes no sense to me. Secondly if you want your kid to attend a top tier university its going to be much more difficult to have enough qualified teachers for all of the AP/IB classes that your child would need to take. The big school offers 35 AP courses a competitive kid will be taking 56 a year. Outside of expensive private schools it would not be feasible for a school with only 150 students in a class to offer 35 more advanced courses on top of the general ones required to graduate high school. I went to a smaller school and it meant way less things for us. We didn’t have all the facilities for sports we had fewer options for classes and just so many less resources. At high schools it takes a minimum of around 2000 kids to offer a really comprehensive set of AP and tech classes along with a full range of extracurriculars. Our high school has about 1800 in its froshsoph building plus 1800 more in the juniorsenior building for a total of 3600. And even at that size it doesnt have orchestra Asian languages or every sport. schools can specialise sports stem humanities arts with dedicated facilities Youre generally not allowed to choose the school you go to in the US. You just go to the closest school/whichever school youve been zoned to. My school district briefly tried to have certain high schools have specialized programs but they abandoned the idea after a couple of years. Having kids request to go to different schools ended up being a nightmare. We dont have good public transit in the US so kids are relient on the school bus. If you try to transfer to a different school they cant send a school bus for you so it made transit really difficult I’m pretty sure the average high school size in the US is nowhere near 25003000 kids I’d be surprised if the average was over 1000 kids even Or the schools in America are probably a lot closer to what you’re saying they should be instead of what you think they are Also your math indicates you think we have 3 grades in HS whereas I’m guessing the majority of American high schools are grades 912.. or 4 year groups For Hawaii you go to school in your area. And in high growth areas they didn’t plan before hand and the schools just got too big. Why would you want to split it up and increase overhead for little to no gain? More students and faculty means MORE curriculum options for students less administrative faculty needed lower real estate costs streamlined transportation/cafeteria/nursing/janitorial/etc and better and more options for extracurriculars. The US consistently ranks among the top countries in the world for the number of PhDs awarded annually. Australia while having a strong research environment falls behind the US and other major researchintensive nations in the number of PhDs awarded. The United States has significantly more PhD graduates than Australia per capita. In 2014 the US awarded 67449 PhDs while Australia awarded 8400. While the US population is much larger than Australias even when considering the population difference the US still has a higher number of PhD graduates per capita. Maybe when Australia starts pumping out the most and best scholars in the world and from the most and best schools in the world well take your advice. Until then let the adults in the room talk. Its already hard enough to staff schools and fund the upkeep for school facilities and you want to create a school system that would make that at least four times *more* difficult? We don’t really have specialized public schools. We have regular schools and then tech schools for highschool. I’ve got 5 high school within 3 miles of my house. The one charter high school has about 650 students the private Catholic high school has about 1700 students. Each of the 3 regular public high schools have about 2500 students. I’m not sure where we’d even put more schools if we capped them at 800 students each. Less dense areas have smaller high schools. The area I grew up had high schools that were a lot more spread out. Most of them were probably in the 8001000 student range. The more rural areas nearby had even smaller high schools. In my experience larger schools tend to be able to have more specialized classes and extracurricular activities than smaller ones. A school with 600 students isn’t going to be able to justify having an advanced college level math class that might only be needed by 810 students. A school with 2500 kids on the other hand might be able to justify having two different classes of it. With more smaller specialized schools that take kids from all over the district instead of those that live in specific zones you force parents to choose what specialization they want. If you have a kid that is a math whiz but also wants to play in the mariachi band they are forced to choose between the STEM school and the performing arts school. For parents with multiple kids there’s a decent chance that each kid ends up going to a different high school which could be a logistics nightmare. Efficiencies of scale. I have 7 high schools within 10 blocks of me....you want more? The high school nearest me in Portland OR has over 2000 students and its less than a mile from me. There are two more similar sized schools only slightly further away. Im not sure what type of area youre talking about but we already have a lot of schools packed in pretty tightly. My high school was 800 kids. It’s 2 towns. My town specifically had 35 kids in my grade. If you had specialized small schools kids would be traveling waaaaay further to their schools. I have no clue what you are talking about. My childrens Elementary school was literally situated in the center of our neighborhood. Their middle school was on the northern corner of our neighborhood. Their high school was situated in the center of the neighborhood across the street from our neighborhood. All 3 schools were within walking distance. A lot of the schools were originally built before the neighborhoods became so dense. It is easier to add more classes to an existing school than it is to build a whole new school on land which is becoming more scarce. Also depending on how the actual housing and developments are handled there may or may not be a substantial increase in taxes to budget for a new school. I dont know what studies exist with objective data of optimal sizes for schools. School budgets from the state or county are often related to the size of the school. \*shoulder shrug what’s the reasoning behind these huge schools? Apparently building schools is expensive. I know shocking but there you go. Its a lot cheaper to squeeze 510 more desks into each classroom than to build a new school. *sigh* What country you hail from? My city only has two high schools. And they are zoned for where you live. As they continue to build more housing people come. They have kids who then go to the appropriate school. It costs a significant amount to build and staff a school. They cant just do that. I think my sons 4 year high school has about 450 students per grade. If you are talking about high school 4 years 800 students would be 3200 students total not 2500. The reason for the larger schools is for administrative costs. Grade schools and middle schools are usually smaller but High Schools can be that large. Also not all high schools are that large. Privatenon public ones are usually much smaller like 400800 students total. Basically every school has to have a principle as well as sectaries and other staff. Every class has limits as to the number of students who can be in it. So 800 freshman will be dived among 6 classes a day including lunch. The smaller the school the higher the admin costs. Where I grew up we had 600ish people per class. It just covered one 6x6 mile suburban town. Where I live now the school has about 100 kids total k12. We split admin functions with several other schools and offer less services and its still a larger percentage of the budget than the school mentioned in my previous paragraph. Our school district has three grade schools. They are building a fourth currently. One middle school and one high school. And they’re like 20 minutes away for the middle of high school. I have never had my kids be farther away than 20 minutes. We live in the suburbs. Personally I grew up in the middle of the country and also was never more than 20 minutes away from home. Our graduating class sizes are 150 at the most. Restrictions on School Choice. Suburban schools are usually bigger. I think this is cause lots of folks have cars and outside learning resources. My high school had 3200 kids and the longest anyone drove to school was 15 minutes. So to cut costs they consolidate schools. Urban schools tend to be smaller for reasons including those youve listed above. Oakland Unified School District has semischoolchoice and much more schools and smaller schools. Their biggest high school is Oakland Tech at around 1800 kids. Secondbiggest is Skyline at 1300. Many of their high schools have 500 or 600 students. This comes from a splitting that happened back in 2000. In the more recent past because of cost concerns OUSD has been trying to merge schools back together. Link My high school only had 3 grades because of how many students attended. There were about 650700 per grade. The school itself was on the edge of the suburbs and rural/forested area. There were kids that grew up in housing developments and others that grew up on a farm. A lot of the rural kids if they took the bus it could take 1 1/2 hours depending on the route with all the stops. You have to realize it is cheaper to build 1 high school with 1 set of staff that handles all the kids instead of 23 that could be a closer distance. Schools in my state and I assume in many others are calculated &amp funded by property taxes in that school district. Its hard enough to convince people to pass bills to pay for levies and bonds towards the school and students for 1 school just imagine how much harder it would be if people knew you couldve saved money by having 1 school but you want to build 23. In my area the only time we have giant schools are at the high school level and the larger numbers allow for better facilities / amenities more course options. Usually elementary schools are a few hundred and more localized multiple elementary schools feed into a middle school and a few middle schools feed into a high school. They have been consolidating schools for 100 years. They think it saves money. I too wish we could spend 5x as much on public education. But thats your reason right there. We also have the smaller schools though for those who want them. There were 88 in my graduating class. I live in whats considered a large town in our area. Our highschool is about 750 students across 4 years. Dont worry the number of kids is going to drop dramatically in the coming years. this assumes Americans care about the education their children get they do not [removed] Post 46 Is compromise common in US politics like it is in countries with parliamentary systems especially if the presidency and congress are controlled by different parties? Author Jezzaq94 This subreddit is for civil discussion political threads are not exempt from this. As a reminder * Do not report comments because they disagree with your point of view. * Do not insult other users. Personal attacks are not permitted. * Do not use hate speech. You will be banned permanently. * Comments made with the intent to push an agenda push misinformation soapbox sealion or argue in bad faith are not acceptable. If you can’t discuss a topic in good faith and in a respectful manner do not comment. **Political disagreement does not constitute pushing an agenda.** If you see any comments that violate the rules **please report it and move on!** *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Yes. Its called pork and beans. It kinda goes like this vote yes on your bill if you write in this small part that says this thing I want. Even today yes it is at all levels of government. The big flashy stuff is billed as being passed on party lines but there’s a million examples of a bridge being built in Congressman X’s district so they’ll support a tax credit in this other area. Despite the rhetoric and perception yes it functionally happens all the time. Bills still regularly get passed and the end product usually somewhat watered down and amended from its original intent. Historically it was very common because for most of American history parties were very loose alliances and members of the same party frequently voted differently. Right now it’s hard. The parties are very strong and expect their members to stick to the party line. I hope the parties weaken because I would love to vote for somebody who I actually feel represented the interest of my community instead of being stuck voting for generic democrat #7” When the presidents party doesnt control one or both houses of Congress compromise is the only way anything gets done. Even when one party controls all three those in leadership dont necessarily all agree so compromise still has to happen. Uniparty rule doesnt mean the president gets whatever he wants. It was for most of our history. Especially when different Parties controlled different chambers of Congress and/or the White House. Over the past decade the pragmatism and understanding of nuance and compromise has been disappearing. It may have once been. But the parties are so diametrically opposed now they just vote against just about anything the other party does mostly out of spite or to deny them a win” in the public eye. Yes and no? When bills go through congress theyll have something one party wants but the other party wont vote on it unless its stuffed full of things they want too. The most common outcome is that the bill fails and nothing happens. So no one gets anything they want and our nation decays. One difference between our system and yours is that our parties function like coalitions with a wider range of viewpoints inside. In Congress those different viewpoints form caucuses. In order for those parties to pass bills they need to compromise between caucuses with in the party. Recent examples Republicans have had difficulty passing appropriations bills in the House even though they held a majority. When Democrats controlled the Senate also technically a coalition since Sanders and King are independents they had to compromise between the Democratic Socialist Sanders and Manchin who was the most conservative Democrat. They needed to find a middle ground between those two even though they also controlled the Presidency. Well I call it selling out your constituents to fill your pockets but toMAto toMAHto. Lmao nah Not so common at the federal level anymore but in the past yes. Closest example comes at the state level in Alaska where they use ranked choice voting and theres a coalition of sorts with moderate Republicans joining with Democrats against hard right Republicans. Alaska is a red state but party ID is much lower there compared to other states. Its currently nicknamed Secret Congress because the compromise bills tend to happen on subjects where the media isnt paying attention. https//www.theatlantic.com/politics/archive/2022/02/shadowcongressbipartisandeals/622871/ It was common at one time. Now however the extreme partisanship makes it almost impossible. Usually if compromise is to be had its for things like spending bills and not anything that actually would benefit the American public. It used to be that way. It used to be that the President House and Senate often had to compromise and work together to pass legislation that was broadly good for a lot people. Now it seems like any compromise is considered capitulation to the other side which will cost you your seat in the next election. Not anymore Historically this was very common. Now it is dependent on the party dynamics. I am more of a state government person so Ill tell you about KY state politics currently. KY has a supermajority Republican legislature so if you are looking at it purely based on Democrat bills v Republican bills there is not much compromise. However since it is a supermajority Republican legislature we have different subgroups of Republicans. We have the far right liberty wing Republicans and we have moderate Republicans. And even within those there are smaller groups. Because of all of these groups of Republicans there are compromises made all the time for bills to go through to become law... and there are also stalemates when some of them do not wish to compromise. To really see these compromises you have to either work within KY state government or follow it closely which most Kentuckians do NOT know anything at all. The media capitalizes on the lack of knowledge of these compromises and overinflates the divisiveness which is what most Kentuckians listen to if they listen to anything about state politics. No. We don’t compromise ever. Our parties used to work together. They don’t anymore. Maybe on the state level to a limited extent but on the federal level the only things they can compromise on are funding Israel expanding the army and eroding rights No! This is why the current two party system needs to go! Both parties thrive on maintaining animosity. There is no legal impediment to more parties and weve always had them the money involved in our system and leadership of the two major parties plus rules implemented in the states for qualifying and primaries make what we call regardless of number third parties pretty much just window dressing for more open democracy. The party leadership and old guard think all our 7080 year old Senators Representatives and Presidents these days do not want any competition nor do they want compromise. Im a lefty way farther left than our very centrist Democratic party but since theres no choice Dem it is. Ive got nothing against people with some seasoning on them Im old myself and I did back Bernie still support him. But the Dem party pulled some underhanded crap to keep him from being competitive. They pulled more underhanded shit behind the scenes crap to coronate Kamala as Bidens successor postprimary just like they selected Hillary as the standard bearer preprimary with Bernie. Now I actually liked Kamala better and of course once they annointed Hillary as the standard bearer at the convention I had no choice but to back her. Look at the alternative. But I despise her as do many American lefties. She actually said at the convention she did not need us. Thus many did not vote for her. A stupid protest considering the alternative but the true left in America is used to protest votes or nonvotes and truly did not see how Hillary could lose. Not believing she needed all the support she could get and maybe compromising just a tad with the left wing of the Party? That would be exactly how. But I digress. I think Jimmy Carter was a fine president and his postpresidency was in all ways superior. The Carter Centers work in safe guarding free elections was fantastic as was their support for eradication of controllable disease etc. But the Carters and the Center are definitely part of the Dem partys old guard. And he was without doubt more a centrist than a lefty. I went to a Carter Center dinner once. My father a big Carter backer paid. Everyone at the table was talking all kinds of leftleaning political ideas. This was a long time ago. Baby Bushs first term probably. But I said we needed more compromise positions not just the dichotomy built in at the moment. Everyone agreed. Lots of headbobbing and general backslapping. So I said we should open the route to a true multiparty system. You could have heard a pin drop. Not just our 10top table but the two adjacent ones went deadly quiet till someone changed the subject and everyone moved on without addressing a perfectly reasonable point of discussion. That is how entrenched it is. And that is why the Dems wont go for a multi party system. My hope is that the Republicans continue to eat themselves alive and their party fractures so the Dems feel more comfortable with supporting actual democracy. Post 47 In trashtalking theres a term A is Bs father. Where is this originated from? In sports theres a quote you are my son used when a player trashtalks to another. And when a player repeatedly outplays another one fans would say A is Bs father. Where is this originated from? Is it from Larry Birds trashtalking? wut Are you referring to ? After some digging I believe it started on r/nbacirclejerk in reference to this https//www.reddit.com/r/nbacirclejerk/s/WPqigJhPv2 Could’ve been a twitter thing but I’m not finding anything Its a round about way of saying he slept with that guys mom. Edit upon reading the comments I may have misunderstood the original question lol. Yeah its probably just a term for saying he owns the other guy. I have never heard this in English! But I have heard it _in Spanish_. During the Colombia v Argentina game at the Copa América the Colombia fans in the bar where I was watching it started chanting Argentina Colombia es tu papá!” That is not a thing in player trash talking. Machismo thing i guess im your daddy aka i control you and am so much better idk ive never said it Im sure its older than the current languages being spoken This is something I know we use to say in NYC. I dont know about sports but its like when youre a child and your dad is bigger and stronger than you. At least in a trash talking way. It can also be thats my son in that dont mess with him way. Maybe from daytime talk shows? It was once common maybe it still is to bring on a woman and the possible fathers of her child as guests. Aftera half hour of fighting theyd reveal the results of a DNA test and who the father actually is. NBA Luka Doncic owned Devin Booker in the playoffs a few years back. In other terms he sonned him. The phrase to son someone in informal American English means to completely dominate or defeat them often in a competitive situation like sports or video games. This isnt the best subreddit to ask about slang terms by the way. Very old in here. Post 48 Can a parent from a state that requires Sexed ask a school for his child not to take Sexed? Any specific circumstances or does it differ between public/private schools? Note I am aware that this question might trigger a number of people. Do note that this is a curious question I am asking because I can’t find concrete answers looking in the internet. I am not here to express any opposition nor support of this topic I have no personal grudges for or against of any kind I am simply here to learn which is what this sub is for. When I was in school class of 2018 there was an opt out option for parents. During sex ed any kids whose parents decided to opt out were taken to a different room to do… Something? yeah every school Ive been in has had an opt out option all public When I was in school and we got to the sexed part of health class they had my parents sign a permission slip to optin. At my kids’ school in the southern US a letter is sent home providing links to the instruction material so that parents can preview the curriculum before the class. Then there is a permission slip where you either give your child permission to take the class or to be exempt. This is generally in 6th or 7th grade so the kids are about 12 years old. idk Passing health class was a graduation requirement. But you probably couldve gotten excluded from certain modules if your parents had asked. I think my parents had to sign a waiver for me to watch the miracle of life so not signing that likely resulted in an alternate assignment. Yes parents can do that. I thought I remembered that being the case when I was a kid googled it real quick to confirm. *Every city town regional school district or vocational school district implementing or maintaining curriculum which primarily involves human sexual education or human sexuality issues shall adopt a policy ensuring parental/guardian notification. Such policy shall afford parents or guardians the flexibility to exempt their children from any portion of said curriculum through written notification to the school principal. No child so exempted shall be penalized by reason of such exemption.* If I remember correctly yes but usually the kid is sent to do some tedious assignment in the library and its a bit othering. Generally yes. While some states require that sex ed be offered it’s usually not an actual requirement for graduation and students won’t be tested on it for grading purposes. Even if it is a requirement” public schools almost always waive it since that’s a whole lot easier than dealing with potential lawsuits from parents arguing their religious views weren’t respected In NJ there’s an opt out the school also gives warning. It may vary from state to state but where I live parents have to submit a consent form allowing their kids to attend sexed courses. Otherwise kids stay in their classroom doing school work while the other kids attend the course. This is a it depends question. Education is largely dealt with on a local level with mandates of general curriculum priorities coming from the state and more loosely the fed. Some locations teach it as a mandatory part of a health course. Others send notices home to opt out when the time comes. Others vaguely ask if their are any topics you would want your child opted out of at the first of the year meetings. Some you have to opt into having your children taught about it. Its a crapshoot. Every school system I have experienced as a student and parent sex ed requires the parent to sign a permission slip before allowing the student to participate. So the default is that the student will not take it without specific parental permission. It really depends. The laws differ based on state graduation requirements vs school graduation requirement. Theres also public private charter and home schools. Private schools can do whatever they want as long as they adhere to state laws. So even if a state doesnt mandate sex ed a private school has the option of requiring sex ed as a graduation requirements and not giving an opt out option. Thats extremely uncommon since many private schools are also religious schools but it is possible. The extent of what is taught can also differ. A class that talks about consent birth control STDs vs a class that supports abstinence only sex ed are two very different things even though theyre both classified as sex ed. Theres a lot of variation so there isnt really a good answer to this question. I grew up in the 90s and it was required but parents could opt their kids out. Only one or two actually did. I went to a private Christian school and my mom opted me out/ flat out took me out of school during that time. She refused to allow them any room to speak to me about it because she didn’t want me getting a bastardized version of sex education” her exact words. The teachers were visibly offended and displeased but they couldn’t really do anything. As to what steps my mom took to make that happen I have no clue. That woman is a force to be reckoned with. She taught me everything. We went in depth about it and I definitely got an education that my peers did not. Ours was opt out and honestly? We should have ALL opted out as it was one step better than Mean Girls telling us wed get chlamydia and die. They taught us that condoms dont prevent diseases and women who do it are already chewed on chocolate bars. There are thousands of school districts and 50 states. They’re all going to have different protocols. As far as I know there was no option to opt out. In either elementary middle or high school. In elementary and middle it was pretty basic stuff and things related to puberty. In high school it was much more of a biology class. That was a Catholic high school and even then I don’t recall there being any option to opt out. I think you can opt out but also if you could see what I know my 7th grade boys were seeing on their phones you would know they need true info to balance the hard core stuff they see online. Not sure if you can skip it entirely but I was squeamish and my parent was able to request I skip the day when they showed the effects of STDs there was no issue with that. I was glad to not throw up as I otherwise likely wouldve Ive had students that were excused from sex ed and any mentions of bodies including nutrition and exercise or LGBTQIA. I also have students that are excused from any projects with any sort of holiday theme to them Ive also had parents go to my superintendent because Im too liberal and others go to my vice principal because Im not liberal enough. Its a mine field When I was in high school parents could sign a form saying their kid couldnt sit through sex ed. Only one person a girl had parents that refused to let her take sex ed. She was the only one in our health class to then get pregnant while still in high school. When I was in grade school in the 90s we had sex ed and the one kid who was a total piece of shit wasnt allowed to attend. I remember being like 11 and thinking this is why he sucks so bad his mom still treats him like an angel baby. Just a lifetime of oh MY kid would never do that. Yes for public schools they let you know the curriculum ahead of time and email / send home forms to opt out if desired Private schools vary. There is a lot less oversight. A lot of private schools were created as legal ways to circumvent racial integration in the 1960s. Some continue in that tradition others have grown out of it. Point being is they often don’t match public standards. Charter schools take public money but with minimal oversight and tend to bend the law whenever they want. It’s why so many crooks get into that industry. I did it for my daughter once. In my area its always taught by the PE/gym teachers. At that time middle school my daughter was going through a mental health crisis and also not getting along with her assigned PE teacher. She was verbally fighting with the teacher accusing her of being racist cursing her out. That teacher was assigned to teach her sex ed and there was no way out of it except to opt out. So I opted her out but I also got the materials and went over all of them with my daughter at home so she didnt miss anything. Yes you can opt out. At my school some kids went to the library to watch an abstinence only video. At most places you can opt out. At my son’s middle school they allowed a few parents to sit in as crowd control for the preteen boys. Hard to make sex jokes when mom is in the room. I lived in a very diverse community university and most of the kids who opted out were Muslims. Even way back in the far less polarized 80s and 90s parents could opt their kids out at my school district. Opting out is a very normal option AFAIK. Sex Ed in my small town school was the boys got study hall while the girls all watched a short film on menstruation. Thats it. I remember filling out a form back in like 2004 for sex ed. I imagine not much has changed. Every year I have been sent home an opt out form and some years I was sent a curriculum preview to help me make the decision. My children are currently in high school. When I graduated in 2010 we didn’t even have sex ed. I recall learning about STDs briefly in health class. That’s about it. Yes parents can opt out. Im not sure why someone would want to unless they really want their kid to be a teen parent but parents do have the choice to prevent their kids from learning medical information about puberty and pregnancy. Yeah. They’re parents are morons I took sexed and it was close to useless. For example they separated the boys and girls so i being a girl learned about my period and eggs and sperm. Nothing about sex its self. My male friend told me they learned about egg and sperm too. Nothing about safe sex or birth control. Mom ask her doctor to recommend some books. Thank God. I passed my books around in my friend group. When I was a kid in the 80s you could. We had a term for the kids who were opted out. Future teen parents Of course we had actual sex ed. In many places in the US sex ed amounts to don’t have sex until you’re married!” Guess which regions have the highest teen pregnancy rates? Maryland has an optout for parents. I don’t know about every state but I suspect it’s pretty much universal. Yes notification goes out to parents and they can opt out You can opt your child out of pretty much anything. Especially if you say that you have a religious objection. Sex ed is minimal in a lot of places as it is. A lot of places it isn’t even a dedicated class. In my public school sex ed” was pretty much two days in my health class where they say pregnancy is the worst thing that can happen any sex will result in terrible diseases with photo proof and that abstinence is the only way to avoid it. I believe I also had to have a permission slip for various parts of the lesson. Yes. Parents can opt children out of certain parts of the curriculum by having them sit in the library or hallway and do an alternate assignment while that part of the curriculum is being taught. It’s not just sex ed that parents can opt their kids out of. There is a false narrative going around because of politics saying that parents don’t have control over their children’s education. However parents are able to opt their kids out of things such as sex ed or reading a specific book decide if their kids can use technology or not they can decide where their kids go to school as long as they are able to transport them if it’s not in their bus zone etc. meaning they can fill out a paper asking for their kids to go to the school across town instead of their zoned school or even to a different school district. They can decide to homeschool and the only requirement if they do is for them to fill out a paper telling the state they’re doing so they are required to provide no documentation or examinations proving that the children are learning anything. They can decide to send a child to a private or religious school if they can afford it. Parents also decide if schools can take pictures of their children or create a school email address for their children. Parents decide when and how much nursing is available to them by providing Tylenol or Benadryl or not meaning that the school nurse cannot treat a child even with a Tylenol without parental permission and even parents providing the Tylenol sometimes so the child gets the pill from their specific bottle. Parents can opt kids out of state testing. Parents can decide if children are offered school based therapy or not which in some cases is very sad because children do not get the support they need when their parents do not agree. The only thing a parent cannot do is decide what *other* children in the school do. And that’s what the alt right wants certain parents to be able to do. But only the ones that agree with them. This is not a lack of parent’s rights regardless of what the alt right and religious zealots think. This is a state specific question. Each state has different laws. They can but I definitely worry that those students arent actually given the information at home. Yes when I was in elementary school they took the boys and girls into separate rooms to watch videos about our reproductive systems and parents could opt out of letting their children watch. Only one family opted out causing great embarrassment for their twin sons in my grade and I remembered to this day exactly which parents wanted to protect their sons from learning about erections. In my experience yes. Even in big states like California. I grew up there in the 80s and when it came time for sex ed they sent notices home to all the parents informing them that sex ed would be covered and if they objected they could sign a notice and the kid would then be given alternative assignments and temporarily be in another class or the library. Idk if it’s changed but when I was in public school you had to have your parents sign a consent form to take sex Ed. So parents could opt out for any reason. Almost always and everywhere In most states they make it pretty easy to opt out in junior high but more difficult to opt out in high school. Of course the value of the sex ed curriculum varies drastically by state and even by community within the state. A lot of conservative parents who would opt out of a comprehensive sex ed curriculum dont opt out of an abstinence only sex ed curriculum because they teach you if you have sex you will die and here are a bunch of gross pictures of advancedstage syphilis. Which is basically exactly what those parents want their kids to know about sex. My school district required permission slips to take sex Ed. So the answer is that your parents can stop you from being taught for literally any reason at least in the Missouri public schools I was in. yep. my sister got my parents to excuse her from the states otherwise mandatory health class. Not because our family is religious or objects to sex ed or anything like that though. More the opposite....our mom made sure we had access to sex ed info at home so she thought the class would be a waste of time and shed rather use that class for something else. Im several years older than my sister and the class was introduced after I was the required age so I also didnt take it. That is the subject of a Supreme Court case right now. Until they put out a decision in the next few weeks it is different by jurisdiction. In the early 2000s in 5th grade we had the basic puberty/limited sex ed discussion at school. A few weeks before we were sent home with permission slips. Parents had the option to have us skip the lesson if they wished. No such permission slips were included for our high school health class. Another little note about the elementary permission slip is that there was a section that listed the time and date of the lesson and invited any parents who wished to attend the class in person. Much to my personal embarrassment My father who apparently didnt have ANY sex ed while he was in school in the 50s decided to be the ONLY parent to show up. Luckily for my mental health at the time the PE teacher was out sick that day so the whole class was rescheduled and my dad didnt come back for the second attempt. For both myself and my kids there was always a paper to sign usually folded into the beginning of year paperwork with an option to pass. The education my kids got in the late early 90s was pretty worthless. We learned about pregnancy complications bodily functions anatomy health all kinds of things my kids never got. When i commented on guys not knowing that women have 3 openings my youngest son was like we never learned anything about that. My girls and their friends were surprised at how much more i knew. They never heard of etopic pregnancy for example. Just say no destroyed heath and sexual education in my district anyway. I have relatives who are superreligious theyre literally in a Christian cult and they refused to allow their children to have ANY health education because they didnt want them to even see the posters hanging in the wall of the middle school health classroom. They also didnt want them to learn CPR because the CPR dummies are too sexy or something 🤪. They eventually ended up homeschooling because their cult leader said the public schools were too corrupt and worldly. When I was in public school in Virginia graduated 2004 and we had some sort of sex ed every year from 5th grade through 12th there was always an option for parents to opt their child out. The kid would usually just be sent to the library for the week that sex was being discussed. The parents can choose this for whatever reason I dont think they have to offer any explanation they just have to sign a form. I think there were two basic reasons though. One is that the parent wants abstinenceonly sex ed but that is not what my school district offered. Or the other is that their their religion offers specific teachings about sex so the parents choose to give a home or churchbased sex education that aligns with their religion. Pretty much every State offers an optout for sexed. Yes absolutely a parent can do that for anything with any school. Consent is theirs to give or take away. My parents did it to me with sex ed and the evolution section of bio which obviously worked out wonderfully for them 🤣. I dont want to say there isnt a good reason for it maybe if your child has sexual trauma or something those courses could be needlessly difficult and harmful... But Ive never understood the reasoning most parents have for it. The US doesn’t have a single set of laws. We’re not one country exactly we’re 50 states in a trenchcoat. The US generally has significant deference to how parents want to raise their children so in most places there are probably exemptions that can be requested. I wouldn’t be completely confident to say that exemptions are available everywhere. Yes most American schools do have a procedure that lets a parent have their child opt out. Conversely if a school does a poor or no job of teaching sex ed there is no option for parents who do want their children to fully learn to make the school teach them everything they must take care of that themselves. You can often it’s usually supplemented with busy work regarding other health subjects. This all depends on the school at the end of the day but since sex ed is a section of most schools health education your student will likely be doing the type of work your given when your injured and can’t do gym class. Gym teachers still have requirements and giving enough work and providing grades as proof of student involvement. Again I’m not sure how it works everywhere but in the 4 states I’ve done work with the school districts allowed a student to opt out but they still have work to do and it’s often more than the students in sex ed have to complete. I hope that helps I don’t have kids so I don’t really feel qualified to say if it’s good or bad. I can say sex ed in my schools was largely just focused on here’s a the reproductive systems here’s what contraception is and the teachers usually bring up abortion not in support or opposition but just because it’s something students should think about and form an opinion ideally before they even are dealing with an unplanned pregnancy. We actually had some good debates in our classes that you could tell weren’t hostile and just young people figuring out where they stand on the issue. But if you don’t want that for your child I’m sure there are ways your district can work with you to provide that. For context I’ve worked exclusively with public schools private schools generally aren’t governed in the same way and can do whatever they want within reason. But i doubt they offer alternative paths in most cases it’s one of those things where the states tend to stay out of because you signed up for that schools curriculum as opposed to public schools being something you have to attend legally if you can’t provide alternative education through private schools charters or home schooling. Yep even in California when I was in school 201418 I believe there was a letter sent home and parents could opt out Yes. I dont now of any state that does not allow an opt out option for the parents. There should be an opt out option. In elementary school we had some parents who opted their kids out and they had to go sit in the library. I think it was the same for middle school. In high school I couldnt fit it into my schedule because an elective I wanted to take was 2 semesters so my mom just had to sign a form to opt me out. I don’t know I don’t think about the weirds here very much. I tried to get out of in 8th grade so that was 2005 nothing had changed since I started sex Ed at 10 so that was 2001. It was all approved until a friend told the principal and he said I had to do it. I was like 0.o I was prepared to write a report and share it to get out of it and everything. Parents are allowed to opt out of sex Ed if they are crazy enough to believe in that nonsense You best believe they get notes from their classmates afterwards 🤣 I went to a Catholic school for one year of high school. Sexed was part of health class was but it seems like when I had questions they were shot down… I don’t think I knew anyone whose parent did that literally ever but I’m a millennial maybe it changed. Private school might depends who asked. Former Health/Sex Ed teacher here. In our district in Nevada we have an optin system. That means that a permission slip needs to be signed for students to participate in the curriculum. It is not allowed to be part of final exam content. Students without permission need to be provided with alternate assignments to be completed in the library or another classroom during SexEd instruction. Usually there is an option to opt out. When my oldest was in fifth grade where it starts for my state they said We couldn’t even finish our notes because everyone kept asking questions!” I reminded them that not everyone has parents who are comfortable discussing these topics with their kids and my child should feel lucky to have already learned a lot from me. Yes. Nobody knows this but you can pick and choose your kids classes. You can do a 1/2 day if you feel like it. Schools notify parents before starting sex ed often euphemistically called Human Growth &amp Development. In many school systems they have parent information nights beforehand but at the very least they send out permission forms. Any parent that wants to opt out is generally allowed to do so. I work in education and was on my district’s reproductive health committee. There was an option for parents to opt their child out but when that happened the principal would call the parent and talk to them to try to get them to change their mind or at least to agree to part of the curriculum if not all. In general yes. Parents can opt out of any specific lesson plans and be given an alternative assignment. Some schools allow opt outs for religious reasons. My school had a high muslim student population and it was always weird when sexed was getting taught cause suddenly half your class was gone You can request that your child be excluded at least in my state you can. But why would you is the bigger question. And I come from c a religious family so don’t make it about that. Sexual health is important saying pregnant will not make your daughter become pregnant. It might actually prevent it. Honestly I do not remember because my mother would not have been the type to say Please do not educate my daughter on a biological function And yeah Im ready for the down votes I don’t recall there being any kind of opt out option and if anyone did opt out I wasn’t aware of it. Mine were able to skirt the entire issue by bringing the puberty video still on VHS home and making me watch it there with my mom in 5th grade before they watched it in school. Yes it was uncomfortable. For actual sex ed my home district taught it in 68th grade but after 5th my parents sent me to a magnet school that did not teach it as the district Im pretty sure either taught it in high school or 5th grade. Most of those kids were pretty well aware I was a sheltered smalltown kid but it wasnt taught in our school. Then they sent me to Catholic high school so I got Pam Stenzel videos. Issue skirted entirely. Then I majored in Animal Science so no secrets there. And a fair amount of friends and friends helping to educate what was missed. And then personal experiences lol My kids 13 and 11 were allowed to be opted out if parents chose this year. Obviously this education is hugely important and so we had the girls take the classes and my wife whos a nurse is always eager to help them learn as much as they possibly can about these vital subjects. I got basic sex ed in 4th grade and jt was a class you could opt out of and parents were given written notice ahead of time incase they wanted to opt out or just have the talk first with their kids before the school did The high school sex ed was mandatory and everyone was getting it but that was at 15 years old so you already know the basics Why would you not want them to take sex ex? Sex Ed in the United states is optional requiring a parent consent form. Puts a target on the kids back. We do have a pot out option. Yes we’re generally VERY respectful of parents’ right to keep their kids ignorant. I’m not joking even a little bit. Post 49 Shame finger gesture common across US? Im trying to determine if the finger gesture for shame is common across the US or only regional. I mean taking one index finger and rubbing it against the other index finger almost like youre brushing something off it. I was raised in Southern IL and do it and thought it was a standard gesture in the US. My Gen Z daughter says shes used it with friends who havent seen it before. Is it regional? Generational? Its used sarcastically/ironically from my experience. Not seriously. Generational. I’m nearly fifty and I remember it being a thing with my grandparents’ friends. I think it was wholly replaced with just the wagging finger gesture. I havent seen that gesture used since I was a little kid. I always thought that was a thing specific to children not a region. I know what you’re talking about but it’s kind of used in my family Ohio for little kids doing something wrong or as a joke to an adult over something trivial. Not really a true shame” motion for adults and more of a naughty naughty” to kids Scrubbing carrots. Yeah def was a thing in New England. Tsk tsk symbol across the room so a parent could be like that is NOT cool without calling attention to whatever stupid thing you were doing embarrassing you or themselves. I have never seen this anywhere lived in the Midwest southeast and both coasts Generational. I dont think Ive seen anyone break out the shame sticks since the early 90s and it was always someone who was like 50+ or a little kid who might have got it from the grandparents. Omg I had completely forgotten about this. Yes we used this as kids in New England I was raised in Chicagoland in the 70s and it was the same I’ve never seen that before I know youre only asking Americans but this is not an exclusively American thing or at least it didnt use to be we used it as young children in the 80s in Ontario Canada. I havent seen it used in at least 40 years though. Ive seen it before but only on TV I think. Its probably bc of generational differences. Edit Now that I think of it It might be regional too tho bc the TV character was from Illinois I think Winston from New Girl. This isnt really an answer sorry... Definitely something older people everywhere recognize and younger people not so much. Im leaning towards generational. Its something my grandparents would have done but I havent seen it in at least 40 years. Shame shame you know your name Im 50 and I vaguely remember that gesture but I havent seen anyone use it in a looooong time. wow that was used in like the 60s in NJ area I almost forgot all about it. Ive never seen this. Elder millenial also from Il. I remember doing it but not before my teen years. Have seen it but probably not in the last 20 years or so it was a thing my grandma would do regularly though So I Gen X grew up with this New England and I’ve long wondered what the source of it was. What the meaning behind the gesture was. Was it meant to mock or mimic? Something homophobic? Some jackass with two sticks being a jackass? Some serial killer with two knives? Some glutton with a knife and a fork are we dining with the King?? IMO not common. Id look sideways at an adult doing that unironically. The same group that do that wont swear — I dont trust people who wont swear. That’s very oldfashioned. I’m GenX and barely remember it. Haven’t seen it in a while. Back in the 70s and 80s it was more common. You also had to say tsk tsk” while doing it. ETA California everyone knows what it is but it’s not something we often use. it’s more something we would use as kids or use on kids but not so much towards adults. just speaking for my tiny corner of the world. That was a common gesture for little kids when I was a kid. In the 70s. I dont think Ive seen it since then. And wed say tsk tsk I thought you were talking about a finger wag. I have not seen the one youre describing. The is probably a better shame gesture to be used sincerely. Millennial. I remember it from childhood in NY but I havent seen anyone do it in decades. I mean I’m familiar with it and I’m in my thirties in California. It’s not common but it’s not uncommon I remember seeing it in the early to mid 80s. I dont think Ive seen it in almost 40 years. And when I did see it it would most often be used sarcastically. I lived in the midwest and southeast as a kid. Regional and more common in communities where education is less valued. Might also be used more in some families or cultures. I think it’s probably generational I definitely know what you mean and have seen it in both MA and CA but only as a joke and not for a very long time Used to be pretty common with little kids in Pennsylvania a generation ago. Im not sure about now. I dont think Ive seen anyone use it in many years. CA millennial I’ve never seen it. I learned that gesture as a kid in the south. But also wouldnt use it today. If someone needs to be shamed Im gonna tell them so with my words. Like an adult... It must be done while saying tisk tisk tisk”. Mainly to show that it was a minor thing. Not shame. It’s to symbolize a nono”. But I think it’s everywhere. Im from NJ and I know exactly what youre talking about! id say generational. Ive lived my whole life in the southwest and I used to do it as a kid in the context of youre busted but I havent seen it in years. Interesting. I saw that gesture used a lot in the 1950s sometimes ironically sometimes in earnest. But I dont think Ive seen it at all in decades. Its like words they get popular then fade then resurface. Its outdated in my generation but yeah its a thing Id understand the gesture. I feel like Ive only seen this from teachers in school who were a couple generations older than me. For reference I was in school in the 90s00s. I use it unironically in traffic. For a while I’d just flip the bird but it’s just more aggressive than I need if all I want to communicate is hey other driver you messed up and should know about it.” probably generational I forgot it existed until now last time I did it was over 30 years ago. Also grew up in IL. I’d forgotten that gesture existed until I read your post. I remember using it as a kid when my siblings did something bad. It was usually accompanied by shaking your head and saying for shame I’m 21 and i use that a lot in an ironic way like jokingly telling someone shame on them. I’ve always wondered why most people never seemed to get” the finger gesture🤣 totally thought it was pretty commonplace but reading these comments i guess it’s just super ancient and not used anymore much lol i wonder where i picked that up Ive always known it Where I grew up Illinois we kids used it a lot on each other. Sort of ironically like saying What would your mother say? I hadnt really thought about it until your post but Ive never seen that gesture since then. Gen Z here born and raised in NC. I know the gesture you’re talking about and have used it only as a joke though. I don’t think I’ve ever seen anyone else use it and I have no idea how I learned it. I’ve also seen it with twin fingers. As in using the index and middle fingers to do it rather than just the index’s. From Louisiana Ive never heard of this gesture in my life / I have seen it used but not since I was a child and my grandmother was scolding me. I use it as a 34yo in the Midwest. Not sure how I started doing it though and I dont know many people here that use it... I haven’t seen it in a very long time. I don’t think my genZ kids would get it at all. Southwest I know of it but I dont think Ive ever seen it used unironically. I’m familiar but don’t really see people do that. I think it’s an older generation thing. I shame my dogs just by pointing at them. I’m from the Midwest and I don’t think I’ve ever seen someone do it unironically. And probably not in the last 15+ years. Did it I Texas when I was 5. Never seen any adult do it to another adult. We just write you up now or prosecute you. Depending on shame level. Im 35 and I never do it seriously. Ill even add in dramatic TSKing and head shaking when I do it. I think its going out of use. I saw it growing up but havent seen it much in recent years. I grew up in CA and I sometimes use a variant put both your pointer and middle finger of one hand together and rub them in an outward motion like your scraping something off the back of your opposing hand’s pointer and middle fingers. I always do this in a joking manner by using my left hand’s fingers to wipe off” the shame my right hand is witnessing. Mind you I have NO IDEA where I got this from. Maybe it’s an old school thing I picked up from my parents?? I don’t know. I just know it’s now a reflex any time I want to jokingly shame” someone. Haven’t thought about this since the early 90’s. lol I have never seen it used I grew up in Brooklyn NY and we did it all the time. I think it is generational because my son says he never saw it before. I immediately knew what you were talking about! I’m in Tennessee but have family from Texas. Will be asking my fiancé as soon as he gets home from work cause his family is from southern Illinois lol Its antiquated tbh I’ve seen it before but incredibly infrequently. I wouldn’t be surprised if some people have never heard of it Im in my 20s and in New England. My parents did this very often but Ive never done it with friends. I recognize it. I felt it use was always semiironic. We used to do it to each other as kids as a tool to aggravate the other child. I grew up in the South Eastern Kentucky in the 80s and 90s. I dont think its much of a thing any more. I haven’t seen that gesture in so very long. I saw it as a kid usually used by kids to let other kids know they were in trouble. It is common among older people. Its is not regional or anything just generational. So I Gen X grew up with this New England and I’ve long wondered what the source of it was. What the meaning behind the gesture was. Here in Florida its used ironically. Typically the middle finger is used to convey many feelings of shame frustration and disappointment. I remember doing this with my elementary school friends mostly as a joke. I haven’t seen it in decades. Today’s equivalent would probably be a finger wag. If a child was being naughty I would expect just a single finger point with a stern face. Lived all over the southeast never seen or heard of this Nope. Thats the naughty naughty naughty gesture Back in the eighties we used to scream FACIAL! and drag our hand down our face like we were scratching it. I still dont know why but was the ultimate insult in 3rd grade. Oh yeah I haven’t seen it in years though but used it as a kid. The finger wag is the one I see more these days. 38 from FL and yeah I do it to drivers in the passing lane when we pass them. Oh yeah I haven’t seen it in years though but used it as a kid. The finger wag is the one I see more these days. I’ve seen it but not for decades. I’m in NY. Im 63 and have lived all over the U.S. and if someone did that at me Id have no idea what it meant. I might interpret it as something obscene! My Dutch grandma born in 1909 used to do it in a joking way when my siblings and I stole cookies from the cookie jar. This was in Minnesota in the 1970/80s. I have a vague recollection of other older people doing it but I cant remember the last time I saw someone doing it. Woah I havent thought about that in *years*. Wow .... it took me a moment to figure out what you meant. I havent even thought about that gesture in a lot of years let alone seen it. I was taught by nuns in the Midwest. They used the shame finger when somebody was acting up in church and they couldn’t verbally address it. Oklahoma City here 41 years old. Never seen this gesture to my recollection. I would probably do a finger wag if I wanted to communicate this idea. I might be able to figure it out from context but I looked up what youre talking about and its not something Id even heard of until now and Im in my 30s. I dont think it would be all that recognizable nowadays. https//www.wytv.com/news/daybreak/shameonyougestureexplained/amp/ I cycle and when cars almost hit me which is all too frequent I do the shame wag and the look on their faces is priceless. MA came up in the 80s that was our Shame Bell. We used to do it when I was young Southern US but I havent seen it in some years and I was told by some latino coworkers that it means something dirty in Latin America. Its a kids thing. Ive never seen an adult use it against another adult. Ha! Its generational. Todays parents do not shame even when it is needed. Im very familiar with the gesture but I dont think Ive ever seen it in real life only in movies and TV. Agree with those that say its generational. Haha I’ve never seen anyone use it seriously. I had forgotten all about that finger thing. It would be a great sign to teach a dog for no” actually. They do it in The Goonies! I’m from Pittsburgh PA and I grew up with this. I was born at the end of the 80s. Its antiquated. Its not used by younger people nearly as much as it is by say boomers and later. It’s universally understood but not a real thing. I saw it a lot when I was a kid but not recently. Ive never seen or heard of this. Lived in Michigan and upstate NY. i have definitely seen this but only in like a joking way. i’m not sure if it’s regional or generational but i’m a high school educator and im pretty sure if i did this gesture to my students they would have no idea what i was doing. I remember that finger of shame I think my grandparents did it. No one does today as far as I know. Maybe. I’m 79 &amp grew up in coastal Texas. I have not seen that gesture since I was a kid &amp it was used among kids as I recall. It more of something a grandmother or ‘Church Lady’ would do. I haven’t seen anyone do that for many decades. It was used in Northern California when I was young but interestingly it does not seem to be used by the ASL community which has a different sign for shame. I like the ASL sign for it better. Never seen it and I live in iowa I wonder if its specific to Illinois Were Im from instead of saying how are you people will says how is insert your name doing today Very common regardless of seriousness of the gesture. From the northeast and I’m definitely aware of it. I feel like my parent’s generation actually used it my generation knows what it means and I have no idea if younger people are familiar. Not much anymore No its not often used It’s kind of used as a sarcastic behavior shaming thing. Although I rarely ever see it anymore I haven’t seen anyone do that gesture for a long time. I’m 50 years old. As a Gen Xer who grew up the 70s &amp 80s in Maine I definitely knew exactly what gesture OP is describing. It’s a joke but it’s common. I wonder where it did come from I know what it is. I havent seen anyone do it in ages though. Wow. Not since childhood. But yes it was common enough in NY’s Hudson Valley in the 70s. I know the gesture though I dont even remember the last time Ive seen somebody use it. Maybe its fading. I only know it from New Girl. It was funny when Winston did it though. Shame Shame I know ya name! I live in the south and use it for sarcasm to pick on a friend sometimes etc. I never see others use it but Ive never used it on someone who didnt know what it meant. We did this in middle school especially when Charlie the Unicorn came out. SHUN THE NON BELIEVERS! SHUUUUNNNN My grandparents’ Greatest/whatever was before Greatest generation used the gesture as well as regularly saying shame on you” or you should be ashamed of yourself” pretty often and it was very much considered the appropriate parenting style—I read a lot of early 20th century and late 19th century popular lit kids books dime novels magazine fiction and there were frequent scenes with similar language. As an older Gen X I heard it from grandparents and teachers and nuns but less from my parents Silents as I think they had started to recognize that excessive guilt and shame is harmful. So I’m at an age where I’m familiar with it have seen it and had it said/done toward me but haven’t passed it on to younger siblings or nieces/nephews and I have not seen my sibs do that with their kids. TBH I kinda think more people today should have the notion of feeling ashamed of themselves when they do awful stuff. Not to the damaging extent it ran around in my grandparents’ era but a little shame would be preferable to so many of the no shame assholes out there. I 39 was born and raised in Hawaii and its definitely not a thing here. I think I can remember seeing a substitute teacher doing it like once or twice when I was in elementary school but she was way older and she wasnt originally from Hawaii. I’ve never seen a shame” finger gesture before. I was born and raised in the Ozarks. If someone wanted to shame you they’d just tell you. Dang ok I didnt realize this supposedly went extinct.. This is how I find out. We use this in the Midwest and know what it means. It was used as a serious measure. Sometimes it is used in the car at another driver if they did something stupid or careless on the road. Or sometimes it could be used out and about in public or in a store at someone if they were misbehaving. I havent seen someone do that in decades and even then it may have been on t.v. Were finger wagglers around here. Never seen it. Was not a thing in any of the 4 states I’ve lived in. Could be family to family or culture. Yes though I haven’t seen it in a while? I’m more likely to shake my finger or wag it. But that’s more scolding lol I saw my grandma do it but thats about it. That is a very old/outdated gesture. I remember seeing it on old TV shows from the 50s and 60s maye 70s. But its definitely not common now. I’m from the Texas border. I’ve seen the gesture before but never in any serious way. I’ve only seen it done in a very pantomimey way. I imagine it used to be very common years ago but is now only around in this kind of way. Most older people would understand it but younger people would probably need it explained. A more universal one is just waving an index finger back and forth. Post 50 What is the most expensive / valuable thing you bought at a yard sale / garage sale? I guess I havent been that lucky but I cant remember getting anything fancy just some chairs and whatnot Free horse. Hes been eating for the last 20 years and keeps being a hilarious pain in the butt. Waaay back I bought a big box of old car magazines at an estate sale. I think I paid $20 for about 60 issues. Hot Rod Road and Track etc. They were all in pretty great shape. I listed them individually on eBay featuring the year and model of the cars featured in each issue. 67 Mustang road test issue” etc. I was shocked at how much people were willing to bid for them. I guess if you owned a 1965 GTO or whatever it was cool to have the Hot Rod issue from when it first came out. IIRC I made close to $700. God bless Boomers I suppose. I bought a barrister cabinet for $25 which was already basically a steal since even shitty ones tend to go for $100150. Brought it home cleaned it up found the makers mark did some research pertnear shat myself called some local antique dealers shopped around sold it for a quick $4000 worth $7000+ took $1000 of it back to the house I originally bought it from because Im not necessarily a *good* person but Im at least a *decent* person lol *aaaaaaand* then spent the rest on good booze and threw a rager. A very nicely framed authentic Ansel Adams print So about 10 years ago when I moved into this neighborhood there was an estate sale around the corner from us. Popped over to the fun of it and saw this really cute little green lamp that I really liked. Bought it under $100. Four or five years later Grand who owns an antique shop is over. He asked where I got the Tiffany lamp. Show me the marks on the bottom fucking thing is worth about $17000. It pushed me over the edge or my artwork so I now have to have a rider on my insurance for artwork and lamps 30 yrs ago as a broke college student I found an antique oak dresser in solid condition for $10. It had 3 layers of dark brown paint but upon opening the drawers I could tell it was solid oak with dovetailed drawers. I took it home and stripped off the paint down to the beautiful wood. Added a clear coat of varnish and it was perfect! It still has the original pulls. That thing has been moved all around the country and wellused for all these years and is still a solid piece of furniture. My best yard sale purchase ever! My mom and I got a weirdlooking guitar for like $10 back when I was 15. It was all metal heavy AF and had a heavy square neck. Turned out to be an authentic National Steel slide dobro with a low 4digit serial number... a serious collectors item. Years later I sold it for $1200. One of my friendss dad bought a book lot at some estate sale. Just a huge amount of books from the 1930s through 1970s. Were talking 20 boxes for $50. He assumed hed find something valuable enough to make it worth his while. So he had his grown kids help him one weekend they had to take out the book copy down the author title publication data printing and conditions and then put it back. Normally tedious work. Spending $500 on books and spending 100+ hours of collecting data researching and reselling to maybe make a $200 profit. Looking for that rare first edition gold mine. In the first box while looking inside at the title page a $100 bill dropped out. hey our lucky day. But then another book a $50 dropped out. Going through the entire collection they found about $14000 in cash. The dad contacted the estate and told them what they had found and arranged to give the money back to them. The estate let them keep the books which did make a profit eventually. Apple II computer Surfboard Sit and stand stroller in perfect condition for $40. I got a Hess Truck common Christmas memorabilia from the 70s for 5 bucks and they sell for 300 on ebay. I got an old phrenology head thats probably worth 1000 bucks got it for 10. But really I get all my furniture used. I have couches that would have cost 3K for 50 bucks. My entire 5000 sq ft house is used stuff outta someones garage a lot of it pretty nice antiques that just wasnt their style. Sadly many that was in their family for a couple hundred years that they just didnt want anymore! An Estate Sale. A 300SD Mercedes that sat in their barn for 20 years... Never picked up anything valuable but my most cherished item is my set of silk damask napkins monogrammed with the initials for Annaleigh Sarah Smith. I love my ASS napkins. A Fire King 4 quart jadeite bowl for 50 cents and another FK bowl in orange for 50 cents more at an estate sale being run by the kids and grandkids of the deceased. I RAN to the car with the bowls after paying. One of those really nice train tables for kids with drawers for storage. Cost me $20 was still in perfect condition a decade later when I sold it for $20. Retail it was worth like $500. Never beating that high. Vintage Trek Elance bicycle. $20. Sold for over$400 on eBay. I bought what was labeled as old gun parts for $20 I figured for that price anything I couldnt use Id be able to sell for a good profit. Apparently grandpa had taken apart a flintlock rifle to clean it and never put it back together. All parts were there and the lock plate was dated 1781 I carefully reassembled it then a few years ago I needed the money and sold it. $300 for a .22 Henry lever rifle. Private transfer of rifles is legal where I am. Fun little plinking rifle. A classical Vespa that ran perfectly for $100 in 1989. Bought a puzzle box that you had to solve to open for like a dollar. Turns out there was around 2k in cash inside after I solved it. Back when they werent so common I got a used once Roomba for like $20. Got a suitcase full of 1940s Hawaiin dresses for practically nothing. Didnt sell them but traded them at a vintage shop for stuff that fit me. Would somewhat regularly get NES or SNES games that I could turn around and sell for $20$40/ea. The systems themselves were also a good purchase assuming they worked. So nothing ever super valuable but a day spent scouting garage sales could make a little money. I bought a midcentury teak platform couch frame for $10 cleaned and oiled it and sold it for $400. I wish I still had the space to restore furniture theres lots of good furniture out there covered in chalk paint waiting to be rescued. Extra long mens cashmere scarf. Online said it was $2000 retail. I think I paid $10. Scored some great hand forged hunting knives for $10 a piece. had an expert look at them and they retailed for over $500 each and that was 10 years ago before hand forged knives exploded in popularity I was in a woman’s garage her only customer since it was early afternoon. She had a large matching set of kitschy kitchen things for $30. I suggested she should look them up because i suspected they had value. She told me I was wrong. I went home and made copies of sales on the stuff and went back to her house to show her. She still didn’t believe it and was acting like I was trying to pull some sort of scam and said she wanted $30 for the set and didn’t want to discuss the matter any more. I bought the set and made thousands off it. The first day alone I made $500 on the cookie jar and the woman who bought it asked me if I had anymore pieces and asked if she could buy them. The values have gone down on them Miss Priss by Lefton but back then they were crazy expensive. A friend of mine bought an old trunk. got it home and went through the pile of old papers inside. Found handwritten letters by FDR and others. sold the collection to the National Archives for over $100K. I bought a soviet trench periscope for 50 dollars Ive seen it sold for 4500 One of my coworkers paid $20 for a painting she liked at a yard sale. It turned out to be an actual Bob Ross painting not one he did for the show. I’m not sure what its value ended up being but she loves it so it’s still on display at her house. Water cooler/ dispenser for $10. Didnt heat water so they got rid of it. I didn’t care got 10 years of use out of it. I bought a $600 carbon road bike with arrow bars from a friends neighbor. Was a high end brand ‘Specailized’. I still ride the bike 8 yrs later but dont do amature races anymore. Not quite but hey I doubt the exact question will be asked the pizza place I was at was going through a remodel and we were taking down all of the stuff from the walls. The place was littered with a ton of small trinkets and what not. The pizza place had a signup sheet that was first come first serve on if anyone wanted anything. The first thing was the model train set which according to the guy needed a little work done but it still functioned. The second is what this story is about. It is an old dollhouse an old metal dollhouse. A few people had asked about it over the years but none of us actually knew what it was. When we took it down we were all shocked and knew whoever claimed this probably just got something worth a few hundred dollars if not over a grand. In pristine condition the inside of the metal dollhouse was adorned with a wonderfully painted house complete with Mickey and Minnie Mouse. I got an empty Lincoln Logs container. Hard to say until I someday sell it I never will. An antique store counter coffee grinder. Impressive in size and weight but when first found encrusted with what seemed to be decades of grime. I paid the asking price of $150 USD. Got it home and began cleaning it up. As the grunge washed away there was revealed a true diamond in the rough. It had been restored at some point in its past. What was at first a deep and confusing range of muddy grays now gleamed in fireengine red with gold lettering. No other restoration” required. I’ve seen asking prices of between $800 and $1600 dollars for these. Mine sits in a place of honor in my kitchen. A huge leather sleeper sofa a steal at $75 owning a big ass truck for the win. A human skull. Got it for a steal Picked up a 500 watt generator for $20 because it didnt run. Cleaned the carburetor gave it some new gas and it fired right up. A really high quality Gillette Fatboy DE safety razor E3b model no collar yes service notches from 1959 for $10 from an estate sale. Appeared to have barely been used based on the lack of patina or wear. Its my daily driver razor and probably will last until I die Purebred German Shepherd. Beautiful and sharp as a tack. Great dog! In fact he was free. If you count estate sales I’ve spent hundreds of dollars on art and furniture. I think the most I’ve ever dropped at once is about $900. My fave isn’t a lot but I love it and use it constantly I found an I Medici Italian leather tote bag at the thrift store for $10. It retails for $200 and it perfectly fits my laptop. $10 Pokémon cards. Dealer offered me $300. I can sell on ebay maybe $900. Paintings. I would see people selling some of my grandfather’s work and not realizing what it is and I would pick it up for cheap. Slant leg tent for $25 signed guy fierri cookbook for $1 and a deer taxidermy mount for $25. 1958 ford truck 500 dollsrs I bought the house. The people were casually looking to downsize within the next few years and I was looking to buy and we got into a good conversation and yeah I ended up buying the house. Like a month later not a few years. Worked out pretty well for me at the time. Back in about 1994 or 95 I bought a car at a yard sale once. It was only $275. A little Mazda GLC. Was it expensive? Nope. Was valuable? Absolutely! I was needing another car. I bought a nice office chair at a yard sale for $20. I knew nothing about office chairs but it seemed like a very nice modern looking chair. It was a Herman Miller Embody that retails new for about $1100. I sold it on marketplace for about $750 and bought a cheaper ikea office chair that suits me just fine. Well I’ll never have to buy a cast iron pan for the rest of my life thanks to the one I bought for $5 at a garage sale so I’ll go with that. A nightstand for $160 that someone had listed on eBay but happened to be located near me. This was of extreme value to me because it happened to match the existing nightstand of my grandparents bedroom furniture that they bought when they got married in 1945 and I inherited and use for my own bedroom furniture. Their set only ever came with one nightstand I guess my grandma didnt use one so wed been using a mismatched piece for years. My FIL enjoys refinishing furniture so he had scoured listings for years and we finally found a match! A real Louis Vuitton purse for $7. I bought a box with baseball caps based on the caps that were visible from the top it seemed expensive. For a yard sale but there was some heat and I love classic caps anyhow there was a dude breathing down my neck. Insisting hed buy the box if I didnt he pissed me off and I paid the $200 the lady insisted on just to piss this fool off. I get home low and behold the box was loaded with sports memorabilia. I know enough to know if it was original merchandise I was in the money. I took 3 items to a nearby shop to see if I could find out if this stuff was legit turned out owner of store offered me $1800 right off the batt I Know enough to have someone without hesitation throw out a figure like that its probably worth more. So I take the same items to the city near our little town I drive over 4 hours and sure enough owner at the shop offers me $2500 for the same items I took the money and returned to the store with some items couple weeks later. I had already sent images of items to the shop and we agreed if items were legit on a price made another $3400 dollars after the gas hotel food cause it got late on me. And I still have more stuff and the baseball caps. I plan on keeping the other items and one day pass them on to my grandkids. I got a really nice Spectra Trimble laser level in its case for $10 at an estate sale some years ago. They go for about $2K but the people running the sale didnt know what it was they were like That yellow box? How about $10? Same people sold me a Vitamix for $15 I guess they knew what that was. I was going to flip the laser but I ended up keeping it...very handy for largescale grading projects on our suburban acre if a bit overkill. Much better deal at an estate auction last year I bought a big bunch of tools in an online auction for a steal I bid $40 based on some limited photos...when digging through the bin I found several StewMac luthier tools I knew were $100300 each retail that werent even shown in the listing figured the lot was worth perhaps $2000 if I parted it all out. Then when I was picking it up there were tons of little boxes on shelves in the basement of the house where the tools were. There was a box marked guitar parts on a high shelf I asked if I could add it to my lot and what price they wanted they just said Oh take it all this stuff is going into a dumpster if it didnt sell. That box had two complete sets of vintage guitar tuners in it one Gibson and one Fender each worth a few hundred plus a Roland guitar synth pickup that goes for about $150. I bought a pristine set on Zwilling knives for $5 including the knife block. My coworker invited my friend and I to her parents tony subdivision garage sale. I wandered into a three car garage with tables of stuff with no price tags. The homeowners had left their teenage daughter in charge. How much for the knives? I dunno. $5? Sold. I also found a brand new Kitchen Aid mixer for $40 at a thrift. The cashier tried to tell me she couldnt sell it because someone clearly mispriced it but her manager walked over and said Sell it for $40. Thats our mistake. I bought a sweet throatless metal shear for 20$. Retail is like 1200$ I bought an unpainted unopened star wars boba Fett action figure for 25¢ at a yard sale. Its worth about 1/4 Mil today. A good working two stage Ariens snowblower for $250. New they go for triple that or more. My son loved that Christmas present. I got a great set of clamps for woodworking. I got a single high end saw horse too. Its the perfect size to match with a tablesaw I have. An antique dresser that had been refinished for $50 [removed] Probably a nice lamp. Ive since gotten rid of it and kinda miss it. Was very 70s iron but was cool. I got a really nice stereo receiver for 5 bucks some years ago. It was a tagging mix up between it and an old black and white tv that had the 50 dollar erroneously applied. and i tried to pay a fair price but they were all well if it says five bucks Ill honor that . That thing was freakin amazing best audio equipment i ever owned. A Savage lever action model 99 RS chambered for 300 Savage. For $25. $1000 for a rug. I got 5 or 6 original Star Trek comic books about 20 years ago for 50 cents each plus an untouched Star Trek coloring book all in good condition. I looked up what they were worth at the time $50 each. I still have them This chair has got to be up there for me. 50 bucks https//imgur.com/a/L9ZyStN I got an old school Ernie Ball volume pedal for $10 and later a late 70s/early 80s EHX Small Stone phaser for $30. lol bought a metal lathe worth $5000 for $300. Didn’t know until I asked my dad to help me load the damn thing into my truck…it’s now his”. We bought a big box of 100 flower pots and stuff for $5 30 years ago. Turned out there were a couple McCoy pitchers and bowls. Wife won’t part with them so I have no idea what they’re worth maybe a few hundred bucks. Probably not the most expensive but yesterday I bought a Thorens record player for $200 thats probably worth $1500 at an estate sale. I bought a nice Trek bike for $20 Barely used Oneida stainless steel 16 place settings knives forks spoons and Serving pieces for $40. It’s still being made in the same pattern. Each spoon goes for $20. 2000 dollar Scotty Cameron putter for 25 bucks. I helped my friend sell a car at a yard sale. $600 My husband bought a wooden in box Lionel display stand. It was the first one made of this time. He paid $1.00 at a church sale. It sold on Ebay for over $5000 about 15 years ago. Eta we wanted to donated some of the money to the church but couldnt remember where it was. He had been out with his dad yardsaling for hours. We bought a painting and other random decorative items from an estate sale. We looked up the artist and he was Spanish from the late 19 early 20th century and one of his paintings sold at auction for $600. I think we paid $30 for the painting. A decent score My SIL made out like a damn bandit at an estate sale and bought like 40 metal shelves for $50 at an estate sale Michael Kors purse I moved to an apartment and needed a bed an nightstand and dresser. Paid $325 for a maple bed with a bookcase headboard and a large dresser with mirror. Was in really good shape and a good brand. About a month later I found a chest of drawers to match and paid $75 for it. I had been looking in furniture stores and thrift stores looking for something I liked had maple furniture in mind and then I found the bed from a classified ad in the newspaper. Never saw something like that advertised in the paper ever again. I would have had to have paid about $1500 for the set like that at a furniture store. My wife bought a RoboCoupe food processor for $35 new in the box that retailed for about $1500. I bought a framed art lithograph for about $50. Turns out its a numbered and signed original. Worth about $3k. Post 51 How are birthdays celebrated? In movies there are often surprice parties and everyone does their best to hang out with you and make the day as great as possible for the one that is celebrated. My family and culture dont really celebrate as much. We only have a small gathering with the extended family and call it a day. So is it like in the movies? \ So is it like in the movies? For kids basically yeah. Adults tend not to. Not to say I’m typical — I have no idea — but I’ve never been involved in a surprise party in my life. There’s a wide range of what people do. Some people do have those big blow out parties while others have a quiet dinner at home with their family. Some might choose not to celebrate their birthday at all. When I was growing up I had birthday parties with my class and it slowly shrunk to just the girls in class and then only my closest friends. Now I just have a day to do what I want and go to dinner with my husband. As an american in my experience the birthday boy is usually put into an empty room by himself and the guests coming to celebrate his birthday gather togther outside then start running into the room with wooden sticks and beat the birthday boy until he starts to cry while singing Happy Birthday. Once the birthday boy is crying and pleading for everyone to stop then they usually give him his presents and maybe a birthday cake if he is loved. And then everyone goes about their day after that. Cake However people want to. Sometimes its a big party surprise or otherwise sometimes its a small gathering sometimes its nothing at all. Its going to depend on your age social circle family and a vast number of other factors. One person could have a big celebration while another tries to ignore it entirely. Children often have parties where they invite friends but what that looks like will also vary a great deal. You have to remember that whats shown in media is to move the plot along not directly reflect American life. Yeah it can be like the movies. If you have good friends and a loving family they usually go all out for your birthday. Its not always that way but it happens often. It totally depends on your family and friend culture. Some people pay a lot of attention to birthdays others consider them no big deal. As a general rule it is more common for birthdays to be celebrated for kids. After that the milestone birthdays e.g. 30 40 50 etc. are often celebrated in a bigger way than others. Surprise parties are mostly a product of TV and movies I think. I have never been involved in an actual surprise party and offhand I dont think I know anyone who has. Which is not to say that they never happen but they are far less common than popular entertainment would lead you to believe. It depends on the person and family. Personally it’s just me my direct family and an uncle that I like. For other people it could be nobody or it could be inviting everyone in the neighborhood. But from my experience it’s usually one’s closest family and friends. Sometimes its like that with some people but theres no common tradition. Those scenes in movies are just tropes. Its important to remember that the USA is an enormous place with many different subcultures...much more diverse in cultural practices than most other places in the world. Its because were a nation of immigrants. Birthdays are big in my family. Everyone gets a dinner and presents. It’s a way to show you love your family and celebrate them once a year. Most of the time we get a special cake that the birthday person likes the best. And on milestones like 304050 you usually get a little bigger party. Surprise parties are like quicksand. The media led me to believe they would be a large part of my life and I should prepare. Ive never encountered either. As far as surprise parties my parents had one for me when I was 7 and we just had one for a friends 50th. Theyre really a pain to coordinate so theyre not very common in my experience. When youre a kid its cake and presents. Sometimes they rent a space somewhere like a bowling alley or roller rink. I used to do a trip to the movies with my Dad brother and a couple friends. As an adult. I prefer a nice dinner out somewhere with a few friends my wife wants every friend shes every had at her dinners. Some celebrate for an evening since for the entire month. Ive fine in with a group and rented a beach house for a week to celebrate someones birthday usually a milestone one. Surprise parties exist but theyre definitely not the norm. Depends on the person. Kids parties are usually a pretty big deal. Most adults only do big parties for milestone birthdays but some do it every year. Personally Im pretty low key. I usually just go out to dinner with my family and maybe a few close friends. Then home for cake the best part imo. Id prefer to take the day off from work but Im a teacher with a September birthday so it doesnt usually happen. Everybody is different. My wife grew up with not much of a party. When we were dating in college I went with her to go pick up a pizza and we brought it to her sisters house where her sister BIL parents and grandma were waiting. We ate pizza ate some store bought cake and she opened an envelope from her parents that had a check in it. Years later they would mention the party we had for her. It still blows my mind. I grew up with the parties youd see on TV. My mom would make a cake Id have a bunch of friends over and Id open gifts and blow out candles etc. One year they rented a pony and we had pony rides. One year my friends and I camped in a tent in the yard. We go all out for my kids parties. Theres typically a theme lots of decorations friends come over etc. We usually brainstorm with the kids on what theyd like. My sons birthday party is this weekend. We rented a video game truck so about 12 boys will be here playing video games. Well also do pizza cake presents. On their actual birthdays we let them pick a restaurant and we celebrate as a family. Well also let them open their gifts from the family. My son loves steak so he picked a Brazilian steakhouse. We try to push them to pick a nice restaurant. Were willing to spend the money for a great dinner for their special occasion. But my daughter always wants some crap place that we can go to any day and its disappointing. One year she picked Texas Roadhouse because she wanted to sit on the saddle while they sang *Happy Birthday* to her. When the time came she looked like a nervous weirdo on that saddle. Im sure every family is different but growing up my parents made our birthdays wholly about us. We got to choose all the meals all the activities and would end the day blowing out the candles on our cakes and opening probably too many presents. We would also have a party with our friends either at some location BuildABear local roller rink ChuckECheese etc. or have a combination pool and slumber party. As an adult I now go out with my extended family for a birthday dinner have a celebration with just my husband do an activity with my friends to celebrate and have an office birthday party. For some people it is. I wouldn’t say that’s typical though. I had a birthday last week and i basically just got a bunch of birthday well wishes on facebook and my mother bought me lunch at a Mexican restaurant and my wife got our son a t shirt of a band I like. My wife loves turning birthdays into a huge spectacle. I dont even acknowledge theyre occurring. Hope this answers your question. My husband and I typically go out to a fancy restaurant together and then plan an activity. We’ve done escape rooms mini golf movies at the drive in theater productions zip lining. Typically our big celebration” is just us two and then various family members will invite us to a meal over the course of the week. My family have not remembered my birthday since I was 17 lol not celebrated at all. kids and younger adults have parties. I had precisely one surprise birthday party in my life which my high school girlfriend proposed and planned for when I turned 17. I am in my late 30s now and usually all I ask for is a nice dinner. Thats just in the movies—too many guns. I was invited to a surprise party but it was more like a flash crowd that the birthday boy a common term reflecting that this is mostly for kids was quietly warned of ahead of time. Sometimes we have big parties sometimes we don’t. I am 43 and have been to one surprise party my entire life. Once you become an adult birthdays really arent celebrated that much. Maybe your immediate family will do something for you or youll go out for dinner and give some minor gifts very maybe your close friends will say or do something. . .but Ive never seen a surprise party in real life and these big birthday things for people you see in movies and TV shows always seem exaggerated. Ive been to a number of friends birthday parties but no one outside immediate family has done one for me. Yeah it’s pretty normal to have pretty significant birthdays. Everyone who had friends had a party in my town. Gifts from everyone was a given. Some of the more… ahem… established people had big ass house parties. Even in school you’d get a shout out. Some people brought stuff for the class to celebrate their birthday lol. My phone got flooded with happy birthdays when I was more social. Some people choose not to participate or unfortunately have no one to share the moment with. I should mention adults do this too but generally less. Sometimes not at all. We had a cake when I was a kid and I got maybe $5 or $10 from my parents. As an adult we sometimes go out to eat for birthdays. Occasionally we do a cake. But birthdays arent really a huge thing in my family unless youre a kid. I did big parties for my kids when they were young. And now we do big parties for the grandkids. Unpopular opinion... every birthday above ground is a gift!!! I celebrate the hell out of every one. There was definitely a lull during the years I was married to a total jackass who did his best to tear me down and make me feel unwanted and unworthy for nearly ten years. Making up for lost time now so I know Im biased. Also my friend and family group is pretty diverse and I love the sometimes awkward gathering of all of them together. Pretty entertaining actually! Another reason to celebrate is that I share my birthday with my grandparent who is turning 102 this year!! Were sure we dont have too many left together so celebrate we must! I try to look at birthday parties as a celebration of life for all of us not because I want the attention or the focus on me... more because life is goddamn precious and if we dont get together and love on our people when we can how much meaning will the memorial service have when theyre gone?! When I was a kid I had birthday parties and went to birthday parties for cousins and friends. The guests at my parties were usually my cousins since I have a lot of them. As an adult I just usually went out to dinner with my husband. Also I’ve never been to a surprise birthday party. Even as a kid I didn’t really care about celebrating my birthday and I still don’t There is a range of ways people celebrate in real life. Some people will have surprise parties thrown for them some people don’t like surprises. Some people will have big bashes for their birthdays—especially if it’s some sort of milestone—some people will only have small gatherings of family and friends. Some people don’t celebrate anything at all. The surprise parties you see in movies etc. are generally plot devices. Never done or had a surprise party. Usually just cake. Maybe A nice meal. But not always. Kids birthdays are big and then some of the ones like turning a decade are generally larger but most of the time for adults they are rather small. For major birthdays 1621304050etc its a much bigger deal and youd see things like in the movies more often. I turned 42 last year and i got a card from my wife and some homemade art work from my kids…so… Everyone does things their own way. I had big parties when was younger . And I got older they got smaller because I only invited my friends and not the whole class. As an adult I just go out with my friends to an event or just somewhere fun. My friend on the other hand was only allowed to spend her birthday with her family. Once she turned 18 she put a stop to that. For me I think its somewhere in between? I havent had a real birthday party in a long time but I will go out to dinner with my loved ones always including my parents because its a cocelebration with my dad whose birthday is right before mine and my partner and I typically pick some kind of fun activity to do together and just generally make sure to spend time together and he makes me feel special. It depends. For children it is pretty similar to the movies family and a bunch of friends and classmates show up with presents and thetes a party. Some adults dont like celebrating their own birthdays and do absolutely nithing special. Some people are narcissists and make huge spectacles. Its all over the place For kids birthdays are kind of a big deal. For adults people will sometimes do a surprise party on 30 40 or 50. Beyond that theyre pretty chill grab some drinks with friends that kind of thing. Its usually for children those celebrating specific birthdays 16 and 18 are huge and the elderly. I stopped having birthday parties after I turned twelve then it was dinners with the family then nothing at all. A typical party consists of cake cutting opening gifts and a few games. In Jewish culture the Bar/Bat Mitzah is a milestone because it showcases entry into adulthood 12 for girls 13 for boys and similar events are the Quinacenara girls 15th the Sweet Sixteen and the 18th because it coincides with the end of mandatory education. The birthday an infant turns one is quite special and relatives join in to see the child smash their cake. Once those birthdays are out of the way they only become special once someone reaches an advanced age 70+. Since most people dont live past that this kind of party is a testament to a long life surrounded by family. My birthday falls right in the middle of the calving season. The gal I was dating wanted to make a big deal for my birthday. Planned a surprise party then got mad when I walked out cause a calf was breached. Got mad when I decided the calf was more important than a party I didnt want. As far as Im concerned birthdays should only be important to your parents. After youre an adult its just ego. Yay you made another trip around a star without dying. Congratulations. Surprise parties are fairly rare. I have been involved in one for my grandfathers 80th birthday party where he knew we were going out to celebrate his birthday but a lot of distant relatives came in so instead of 6 of us it was like 25 or so that were already there. Which was fun! But mostly for kids theres more organized around it and going out with a lot of their friends and family coming and presents. For adults it varies but mostly going to do something fun with some friends maybe gifts but usually more minor. Sometimes something bigger for milestone birthdays. This well vary by person. Movies and tv are usually an exageration and surprise birthdays are no exception. For me personally I like low key birthdays. Ordering take out and watching a good movie at home. I am also not a super social.person and i hate crowds. There are people who have surprise parties though. Kids birthdays tend to be a bigger deal. Only time adults really have parties is if it’s a big” birthday like 30 40 50 etc you see adults having actual parties otherwise you might meet some friends for dinner at some point. Adults demanding parties every year is seen as pretty cringe and selfabsorbed. Maybe sometimes? Not normally. On my 40th birthday this year my boyfriend and I went to a concert but that’s nothing we don’t do normally. I had some one off dinners at restaurants with some friends. Surprise parties aren’t very common. I have been to … one? And I am over 60 y.o. Usually if you have an office job they get you a cake and maybe everyone signed a birthday card. For families it could be same maybe some gifts if your family can afford them. Big todo’s are for singles. It *really* depends on the family culture religion region and person. I threw a surprise party for my 18yo because she was being moping and said she didnt want to do *anything* for her birthday and I know her well enough that she was just having decisionfatigue. She was very surprised and loved it. Kept walking around giving everyone hugs and thanking us. Growing up as kids we got at home parties. A few friends some burgers and hot dogs a homemade cake. Nothing fancy. Maybe a theme if we really wanted one but my parents were really insistent that birthday was a theme. I know people who go all out every year. Or go out to eat. For my birthday I often plan trips. Last year we went hiking with my family. Depends on your family mine wasn’t really a birthday focused family and now as an adult I actively avoid telling people when my birthday is coming up cause it feels weird to have people make a fuss over it Usually just do stuff with friends depends on the year have a party sometimes smaller sometimes a rager with a band go camping and involve other activities like rafting/biking/tubing/kayaking sometimes just go out to dinner. Depends on the year I mean not all surprise parties but it’s common to make it a special day for the person. I think having that level of birthday is not typical. Ive never actually met anyone thats had a surprise birthday party or any party actually. Well I guess maybe if you consider I have seen work places have like a cake for someones birthday but not like an actual celebration per se. Now in school especially like Elementary School so like 11 years old and under some schools require if you hand out birthday invitations during school you have to give an invite to the whole class. But especially since like covid I found that its rare for kids to actually go to parties because you know life is busy and I think since the locked on a lot of people will just kind of got comfortable and not having to do those things like birthday parties. The only time I can really think of people doing like surprise birthday parties or like massive the parties is if youre in like college and you live or close to campus Maybe. But yeah those types of birthday parties are definitely not typical in many places in the us. It’s all over the place from my perspective. You might have a big surprise party one year and then the next be low key. We threw a 60th surprise birthday party for a neighbor that had 3040 people at our house a couple years ago. Another one was about ten people at a nice restaurant. Some are just a nice dinner with family at home. It’s completely random. We used to throw big parties for our son but around age nine he decided he’d rather have the money we would have spent on the party instead. It’s easier for me and makes him happy. Every person and family is different — there’s no one way birthdays are celebrated. I never make a big deal out of my birthday at all. Sometimes if it’s on a weekday I might not do anything and wait to have a small gathering with friends/family on the weekend. I dont really celebrate. My family will insist on taking me to dinner if theyre in town but thats about it. I personally havent really cared about my birthday since I was 12. I know people who love actually doing something for their birthdays as adults though It really depends on the person how much money they have or come from and their age. For kids usually every birthday gets some sort of party and its most often thrown by the parents or family. On the lowkey side of things its usually just family and maybe some family friends. Theres almost always a cake of some kind and candles to be blown out. Bigger parties are school friends and neighbors coming over for cake and ice cream. Sometimes a meal like a barbecue. Sometimes there will be an activity or game planned. Another common way to celebrate is to throw a party at a venue like a Chuck E. Cheese or a community pool. For adults it varies even more. It mostly depends on how social the person being celebrated is and if it is a milestone birthday. Sometimes it will just be something very simple like friends getting together at a restaurant. Other times friends will throw a party for someone or sometimes people will throw their own birthday party. These can be as simple as having everyone over for dinner and cake or big elaborate get togethers. Some examples of parties I have had in the past My 16th birthday we had my school friends over to play video games. We had a pasta bar and cake and I opened presents. It was very much like something youd see in the movies. My 26th birthday we went to a local brewery with our usual friend group on our usual night. The only real difference was I brought cake and everyone bought my beer. I think there were a few presents? My 39th birthday I threw a big barbecue with hamburgers and hotdog and cupcakes. We had family and friends over and we all just hung out and had a nice time. Again very much like something you would see in a movie. For my 40th birthday coming up I think Im just going to invite all my friends to join me for milkshakes at this ridiculously extravagant milkshake shop. One of those places where the milkshake comes in a quart jar and has a wholeass cupcake on top. No expectation of presents. Nothing special. Just time with friends and an excuse to eat a milkshake the size of my head. Entirely depends on age and culture and we have a lot of people who will vary. Like my kids get a party every year. I’m old enough that I just get well wishes and maybe a gift or two from family. On major” birthdays it might be more involved. My dad’s 70th was everyone flying in from out of town or driving in. It was a festival. His 69th was just a sedate affair with close family and a nice dinner. I get a pony Depends. There are people who are into birthdays in the US and people who arent. I dont think Ive celebrated a birthday since I turned 21 which was many moons ago. Its just another day. Big parties rarely happen every year. You cant always book the place with the indoor playground or take the trip or go to the ball game. My uncle turns 80 in a couple months and we are having a surprise party for him. Generally for kids a birthday party is a big thing. For adults not so much. Usually only special ones like turning 80. Typically for an adult a birthday is going to dinner with a spouse or immediate family unless it’s a milestone birthday. This will only be the second surprise party I’ve been to in my life. It’s not that common. It really varies per family. As a kid my parents made a bigger deal over our birthdays than Christmas. We got to skip school and pick all the activities we did that day. My boyfriend turned 30 this week and we spent the day together. I took him shopping made all his favorite foods and hung out at home. I’ve also planned him a birthday party for this weekend. Depends on the person and their family/friends. I’ve been part of surprise parties but I’ve never had one thrown for me. My birthday usually involves getting a $50 gift card from my inlaws and the same from my parents. Wife doesn’t get me gifts as I just buy what I would want as a gift when I want it usually. Otherwise I spend the day doing one of my hobbies usually going fishing if the weather is okay. Only my family knows my birthday I don’t celebrate it at all aside from maybe getting takeout or going out to eat by myself. Most people I know above the age of 2025 at least either don’t do anything for their birthday or they’ll have a couple friends over to have a game night or something lowkey. Movie” birthday parties are typically for the young or milestone birthdays. Depends on age. Adults usually go out to a dinner or similar gettogether but not typiclaly surprises. For kids you go all out. Parents in my neighborhood do bounce houses and and pool parties and custom cakes. At least here in suburban Texas a lot of homes also put up bug birthday yard signs up on the front lawn that say HAPPY BIRTHDAY along with name and age and other decor. When youre a kid parents usually organize a party and invite friends over your parents will give gifts and each kid may bring a small present to the party When youre a teen you and a small group of friends may go somewhere and do something movies the mall go karting etc or have a more intimate party at your house. Your parents may get you gifts but the friends generally wont theyll give a card maybe a gift card too if anything at all College drink at home to pregame then go to a bar and drink yourself sick people may buy you shots Adulthood going to a nice dinner with your partner or close friends This is generally representative of my life growing up middle class in the suburbs. It was different for my girlfriend as a quadruplet and it may be different for others but I think this is not a bad generalization It’s going to vary widely depending on socioeconomic status tradition age of celebrant etc. For us we did a kids party with their classmates twice for each kid when they were young. After that it was more a family get together…go out somewhere to eat have a cake and presents at home. Some parents I know went crazy with huge parties and it has to be celebrated on the day”. Then you get grown ups thst throw huge bashes. Some people throw themselves a party others just low key. I had one surprise party for my 30th birthday but other than that most of my birthdays have just been very lowkey family affairs and sometimes just me and my partner doing something. In American culture a birthday is often a day or event dedicated to making the birthday person feel celebrated. They get to be the center of attention and look forward to getting happy birthday! sentiments from texts and people they know. We try to fill the day with small gestures. There is usually cake. Sing the birthday song then blow out the candles. Gifts while everyone eats cake. Often peppered with small rituals like making a wish before blowing out the candles but keeping this wish private/unspoken cutting the cake as the birthday person means sharing some joy with everyone. This party can be small or large but I think the media portrays them as large to indicate this person is loved and celebrated. Kids parties are often themed and can be extravagant. Friends and classmates are invited to eat play games and share gifts. The host will usually give guests goodie bags filled with little toys or candy when they leave so they can have a token to remember the party and continue to play. Teacher here. My kids and a workbestie conspired to give me a surprise party on the last day of school. It was amazing and I cried lol It varies a lot by age and culture My family did whole day celebrations when I was a kid but not big parties because we couldnt really afford that. Ive been told that making a big deal of birthdays is common in Hispanic American culture so that checks out Usually in my family anyway its just the immediate family having dinner out at a restaurant of the birthday persons choosing and cake/presents at home...unless the restaurant has a good dessert menu. Then we have dessert there. Milestone birthdays are celebrated differently and it just depends on whats planned. For example my mom is turning 70 in August and has said that she doesnt want a big party like we did when she was 60. So Im currently researching options for going to the Oregon coast she loves it there and doesnt get to go often for a few days. In my family the kids get small parties but adults usually just have a meal in a restaurant and a cake. Surprise Parties happen for people who like pranks go above and beyond for others and loudly voice an interest in a surprise party often for nonbirthday events. I have a pranky aunt I think is responsible for 3/5 surprise parties I’ve attended. I don’t know that I’ve heard of an individual having multiple surprise birthday parties growing up. I associate them more with major life events people come home for. Graduations Engagements Showers… these events that may involve a registry and modest folk may not want the attention please no party and their parents may be like ‘oh they’re getting the attention’ then you show up after graduating college and you’re at a surprise grad party. Or an overthetop engagement may culminate with the reveal of the families in a venue nearby ready to celebrate with a surprise party. That’s the most common type of surprise party to me. I don’t do much more than a nice dinner w/ friends and family. Ideally go camp with my kids. Oh that’s what we did last year. Glamping w/ the boys. Its different for different regions families individuals and across years. Ive had big parties small gettogethers birthday trips with a small group of friends surprise parties simple dinners and many years where I do nothing and no one arranges a celebration for me. Those parties youre talking about really do happen but theyre not the main or only way birthday parties are done. Just had mine. I went out to eat and spent the evening at a local festival with family and friends. Then we went to my house and had cake and ice cream. As a kid it was more of an actual party. Cousins and friends would come over. There would be cake and ice cream. Id open presents. All the kids would play party games pinata pin the tail on the donkey and water balloon toss since I have a summer birthday. My husband and I have Amazon wishlist for gift ideas ranging from $5$1300. Throughout the year we just order stuff off of each others wishlist for birthdays anniversaries Valentines Christmas Mothers and Fathers Days etc. We have secret gift lists for our kids too. This way we know what the everyone wants. Surprises are overrated. I enjoy going out on a date with my husband and eating a meal away from kids. Then we usually do another small meal or activity involving our kids and occasionally nearby family We only have a small gathering with the extended family and call it a day. Thats more of a celebration than almost anyone I know has for their birthday. I don’t really give a shit about birthdays. Woohoo another trip around the sun is about it. No party and I don’t take time off work When I turned 13 my father told me I was an unwanted surprise. I have had one celebration since my wife held a surprise 40th. I think it depends on age at least it does with my friends and family. Birthday parties are for children and then for big birthdays” for adults like 21 50 and maybe a few others. Birthday parties are mostly for kids. Surprise parties happen occasionally for 40th and 50th because those are sweet spots where sometimes you have a mix of old friends plus current coworkers willing to do something and those numbers feel important” to people. The real weirdness is terminally online women who celebrate their birthday month” as though everyone in their life needs to treat them differently the entire month. Have fun. Do whatever you want. I’m glad people are enjoying their lives. But some of those birthday month” girlies are just exhausting. Some adults will mark milestone birthdays with big parties but big parties are mostly for kids. My wife and her friends will do a small brunch out for their birthdays. I never want to do anything on my birthday. I guess it depends on the person. At least in my family and friends when youre a kid a birthday is a big deal. We usually had a party with just close family and some friends from my neighborhood or school. As an adult not so much. When my mom was alive wed do something special like a nice dinner and a small present. And the obligatory $20 check in the mail from my grandparents on moms side dads side were gone by this point. When I was with my partner there were no parties. Wed exchange small presents. Now that everyone is gone I do nothing. Its kind of sad but Im over it by now. Though my family did have a large surprise party for my 40th. It was great. But that was the one and only party Ive had as an adult. Once I turned 30 I stopped caring and decided only to celebrate the decades. For my 40th rented a house in Puerto Rico and invited a bunch of friends to come. It was amazing. My mother loved throwing birthday parties when I was growing up. She’d invite my friends and plan activities. Me not so much. I did set up a birthday party once for my son but only one boy showed up despite multiple affirmative RSVPs. I didn’t do that again. Mostly birthdays include a selected dinner at home or in a restaurant followed by birthday cake with only immediate family members present. I’d be fine with not celebrating mine at all. My SIL loves to have parties though and we occasionally got invited to our niece or nephew’s party. The older I have gotten the more of a normal day it has become. It’s nice to get a phone call or a card. But I don’t celebrate”. I’ve been in surprise birthdays for friends but would never want that sort of attention on me. I usually travel out the country to celebrate my birthday. Most often involves an event of *some kind* whether it be big or small. Usually decorations of some kind and good food and drink. For a young kid it’s usually a party at their parent’s house or a public entertainment venue like a park arcade or trampoline park. And they celebrate with the kid’s friends with cake and presents For young adults and up it’s much the same except parents are typically left out of the main birthday event. Those old enough to drink will have a small house party or go to a club. Cake and presents may or may not be involved. People who have kids and older typically go back to celebrating with their family. Big parties are usually omitted but still occur. It’s more common to go to a nice dinner with a small dessert and more expensive personal gifts Wealthy Americans may or may not use a birthday as an excuse to travel and turn the event into an extended celebration I take the day off work and sleep until noon. America is HUGE and full of people from all different cultures. Some celebrate some don’t I have had only one surprise party in my life. I might hang out with a few friends but not major parties. Well my kids most are grown and living on their own got together and all came down to celebrate my birthday last year. It was such a wonderful surprise! They cooked me dinner and we just all spent the weekend together! That was by far the best birthday I ever had! Kids will usually do the same as you with their family on their birthday and then have a party with their friends/class on another day. Like you’ll rent out a bowling place for 1020 kids rent a private room for pizza &amp cake and bowl for 2 hrs. People usually bring gifts &amp the guests get goody bags as a thank you. In your early 20s a lot of people still make a big deal of their birthday &amp will arrange an event and invite all their friends/extended acquaintances. Could be a party or a dinner/drinks or some kind of group activity. Sometimes their best friend will arrange it. Usually only your close friends/family will give gifts. After your mid/late 20s most people calm down &amp do what you describe with their family or close friends. Gifts may or may not be a thing. Some high maintenance types might still try to do the whole come axe throwing with me for my birthday !!” thing with a ton of friends but it is generally seen as weird and annoying. Children will typically have a planned party. They will invite their friends possibly entire class at school. Family will also attend though they may have a separate dinner with the child as well. This party could be at their home at a party place like ChuckECheese or a playscape or could a trip to the zoo or something. Teens will typically transition to a small family dinner then going to the movies or minigolf etc with friends. Adults will typically have a dinner with friends/family if anything at all. If there is a surprise party it will be for adults but I have never attended one. I usually treat my birthdays as a Try something new in a different area kinda thing. Im also an introvert so parties are not my style. What usually happens is I spend the day playing tourist in a far away city riding the local trains and buses and head back home for dinner I get a text from my mom then I go to my job. Sometimes I cook myself a nice dinner. I’m 61 and have been to one surprise party in my life. For kids we threw parties and invited their friends.for adults a nice dinner somewhere. Normally I think big surprise parties are pretty tacky especially where everyone jumps out and yells surprise but I have surprised my husband with small birthday parties. He is an introvert and doesnt like being the center of attention but the anticipation of it is far worse than the reality. If he knows a party for him is coming up he gets very irritable all day beforehand. Once his birthday was close to a community potluck so I asked a friend to pick up the birthday cake from the bakery and bring it. For his 50th I told him our friend was hosting a picnic at the local park and that friend picked up the birthday cake. He didnt suspect the picnic was a birthday party until they got the cake out of their car. So not really a surprise theres a party but surprise this party is for you. Im a summer baby so all of my bdays have been a pool party of some kind. Except maybe during covid. But typically we my mom and i throw a huge cookout/pool party to celebrate the end of summer and my birthday. Family and friends come from all over the country. Its kind of become a mini family reunion. This year Ill be 40 and I told everyone I shall not be present cause I wanted to do something different so Im going on a Mediterranean cruise. They can still have the party but I want nothing to do with planning it. The only times adults have bigger parties in my realm is when they are major milestones like 60 70 80. Im not a party person so I dont them. Ill be 50 next year and if someone throws me a party Im not going 😂My husband and I do dinner together at home steak and bacon wrapped scallops is my favorite meal. Usually I have breakfast with my mom. My kids call and/or send cards. Thats about all I want. My birthday is also right before xmas and its already a busy time AND I have an adult kid with a birthday just after mine. Too much going on for even more parties and obligations. As with everything it varies. Fwiw Ive never participated in a surprise party despite what every TV show/movie projects. Really dependent on the individual and their own culture. When youre a child birthday parties usually decently sized ones are mostly common but typically wind down the older you get that by the time youre an adult its mostly just what you feel like doing. Some kind of party? Doing stuff with friends/family? Nothing at all? When I became a teenager I told my parents I didnt want a party anymore. Just give me money. They were fine with that I havent done a genuine birthday party in over a decade. Whenever it comes out I usually just treat myself to something but not much beyond that. It depends on the birthday. My friends and family celebrate milestone birthdays with more enthusiasm than normal ones. We throw big birthday parties for our children when they’re little but as they get older the parties get smaller. For the adults it’s usually a cake and going out to dinner with friends but we throw a big party for milestones like 40 50 60 and 70. I threw a huge party for my Mom’s 70th. There is no universal way to celebrate birthdays in the US. Like many things in the states they’re as varied as the cultures that make up the US. Usually there is a cake involved with a candle that is extinguished. I have had one surprise birthday party thrown for me and I did not enjoy being thrust into a room that had my drunk friends my work friends my children my parents old college buds etc. all while showing up looking like I rolled out of bed instead of dressing for a party in a nice bar Many years ago we went camping for a few days adn had to bring back one of the guys at a certain date and time. The last day we get up and hes up and ready to go. The rest of us are trying to go slow. We found a restaurant to have breakfast on the way out and must have gone through 3 pots of coffee trying to slow him down. We took back roads all the way home taking hours longer than it should have. And he was still surprised when we all came through the door. Surprise parties are hit or miss. Most of the time bigger parties are for younger kids and tend to be themed around a television show or some other interest of the kids. Once they get to their teen years its mostly them their parents siblings extended family and maybe some of their friends. Big parties only start happening around milestone birthdays after they turn 18 and even then its hit or miss 21 and 50 usually. Kids tend to get big parties but teen and adult parties are typically pretty tame. My parents threw huge parties for me until I was about 12 then it was a day at the mall with some friends or a concert or event. As an adult I typically go camping or at least out to dinner but no big parties. It varies so much and depends a lot on age. In my circle friends/inlaws it ranges from kids get a big party on the 5s 5 10 15 20 and adults on the 10s to people do a small meaningful thing with family. In my house I try model doing something special for loved onesand do something thoughtful I know they would like. I make their favorite dessert make the day or a day they have free about them. None are into things so I try to get at least something little so they have something to open. Its a struggle to think of gifts but usually a book or gift card so they can buy something guilt free. My kids do stuff like write poem make some kind of art like painting or a sculpture. I usually make a piece of art for my husband and make sure he has a relaxing/fun day at home. For my birthday since I like travel and doing things they often come with me to a city for a meal and a museum. Sometimes my birthday is going away for a weekend with girlfriends. I’ve thrown several large birthday bashes. Three of them were surprise parties. Likely they were the only surprise parties the birthee ever attended much less have thrown specifically for them. Probably true for most party goers as well. But the truth is I had a crap childhood and most of what I strive for in my life came from tv values. So there you have it. I personally haven’t had a birthday party since I turned 13. I do my best to keep my birthday a secret. I can’t stand obligatory wellwishing that only takes place because a database tells them so and it’s one of the reasons I stopped using Facebook 10 years ago. If you can’t memorize my birthday please forget it. Kids as in elementary middle school have birthday parties at parks / playgrounds / entertainment spots like lazer tag with cake. A lot like the movies generally. High schoolers and young adults don’t celebrate much. A cake a little recognition / nice dinner. Typically not a big ordeal. The 21st birthday tends to be a shit show of bar hoping. Sucks to be the first in the friend group to turn 21 you’re just sent to the liquor store last one in the group is everyone goes on pub crawl. For most adults like you tend to reserve bigger celebrations for the divisible by 10 milestones 40 50 60. Really depends on the person though. There isn’t a rule. Some social butterflies will plan parties for themselves or friends. Some people live close to extended families some don’t who do a little more of that acknowledgment. Some people will use it as an excuse to take a trip with a couple close friends. I have done / taken part in all of the above. Ive only been involved in a few surprise parties. Most of the time its direct family and maybe a few cousins uncles or aunts if they live close by. Birthday cake. Singing happy birthday. Pinata full of candy. You can pretty much rest assured those three will be present at any kids birthday party. You might also see other things that would entertain kids like a magician or a bounce house. Birthday parties are often held at fun places kids like to go too. Like laser tag or bowling least that was true when my 41 yo ass was 10. Never had or been in a surprise party. Ive had everything from a small dinner with family to a surprise party to a few thousand people at a bonfire out in the desert with a large BBQ gallons on gallons of jungle juice and a few kegs of beer. When I was in 5th grade my birthday lined up with the trip all the 5th grade classes took every year to Wet N Wild. Its a big waterpark with lots of water slides and wave pools and stuff like that. Worst sunburn I have ever gotten on my birthday. 3 years ago I went to Hawaii for a month long camping trip for my birthday. I woke up to a beautiful sun rise in my hammock on the beach went fishing and caught my lunch multiple friends I had made on the island stopped by and brought me food and alcohol I made some new friends that gave me a bottle of gentleman jack another group I met that day gave me some trail mix with magic mushrooms in it a friend brought me a little cake and I picked a bunch of mangos and bananas before going on a hike. I just had my birthday a week ago and this year I had a migraine so I stayed home and did nothing but I went to a friends little birthday party the next day and hung out there. I also had a dinner with family and a couple friends like 12 people total the Sunday before my birthday. So for me Ive done prettymuch everything you can think of for a birthday but I know thats not normal. I do know people that have a small dinner with family every year I do this the weekend before my bday + something bigger on my bday almost every year and I know other people whose family and friends try to surprise them with a surprise party every year its funny to see how they try to surprise them after decades of surprises one of my favorites was having 1 surprise party for this year then the next years surprise party the very next day/a year early Surprise parties aren’t that common. They can’t or else they won’t be surprises. The last one I tried was for my husband then his flight home got messed up so we transferred the party to my friend’s boyfriend who had the same birthday. Bro was so touched. Then he and my husband got to be good friends. LOL. Everyone ultimately celebrates as they like. I love a party! I think depends on the family. Most birthdays I’ve had have been small family affairs. We might have pizza and cake— open a few presents. My mom would sometimes decorate. When I got into learning Japanese language on my own in highschool she made a Japanese cherry blossom tree out of construction paper with fake cut out petals everywhere and a bigger banner that said happy birthday in Japanese — she googled it and did her best to write it out in markers. As an adult my husband and I might go to Cheesecake Factory or something I like their cake options! Maybe we go home and watch a movie? As an elementary schooler my mom once or twice invited a bunch of kids in my class/neighborhood— but I didn’t like that much energy so we just didn’t do that again. In my family the birthday person picks a place to go out to eat. We follow that up with some evening event or activity went to a movie did bowling once etc We then come home light candles on a cake sing happy birthday eat cake with the birthday star opens up presents. Say thanks to everyone for coming call it a night. It really depends but usually birthdays are celebrated with a party or special event or theyre not really celeberated at all beyond just acknowledgement. My last birthday however is celebrated by having a trip to the buffet. But Im also a American born Asian rather then a Caucasion. I threw a surprise birthday for my mom’s best friend for her 65th birthday. She burst into tears and told us that she had never had a birthday party. Best party ever. Sometimes but not every time. It’s not typical to have a big birthday celebration every year it’s more common to have them on millstone birthdays 21 30 40 etc. The rest of the time they are usually smaller get together with family and friends or just going out somewhere fun. When I was young mom would make a cake and my immediate family would have that. After I moved out nothing for years. Then when I started dating my girlfriend now wife we go out for a nice dinner. In my 40s when we bought a nice house I had to own my own gettogethers will friends and coworkers if I wanted anything to happen. I mostly just cooked food on the grill and hung out then had cake or cup cakes. That lasted a few years then back to nice dinners out with my wife. Vastly depends on the family tbh I know people who have parties every early for birthdays iknow people that get surprise parties or set them up myself and other people I know will just go out to a diner we really like for our birthday some people dont do anything its not exactly a US cultural thing its just a personal preference between individuals Mine go like this I just found out it was your birthday yesterday why didn’t you tell us?” Because that’s awkward?” True.” I would say this is more of a person to person thing. Companies definitely mark birthdays with deals for customers and there are some people who take advantage of as many of those free birthday gift deals as much as possible. My friend group is a birthday celebration heavy group which is exhausting in the first couple of weeks of April because I have like five friends with birthdays in that range and mine is then too. Usually we celebrate with karaoke bar hangs or park picnics. When I turned 33 I had a fancy restaurant dinner with 12 friends and called it my last supper. I’ve had two surprise parties for 15 and 30 and my mom usually does big expensive gifts for my birthday rather than Christmas. I also live in Los Angeles which feels like a city where birthdays are more notable probably because of celebrity influence. It’s a day on the calendar and I get some text messages. But I’m an introvert and really don’t want to be the focus of anything. Most of the time they are planned and kids are invited to come over. You might have pizza or food. Maybe you go to some activity like a trampoline park or laser tag. Then they do birthday cake and ice cream of some variety. Depending on the age kids bring a toy present to the one having the birthday which is funny since a long long time ago it was the individual with the birthday that would give out presents. As far as surprise parties I have had 45 birthdays now and only one has been a surprise. I suppose it depends on how well off you are your families traditions the culture your family comes from your families tolerance for parties and the age the person is. I think a birthday cake and presents are pretty traditional. But the rest is very family specific and not everybody does it the same. My family we just did a small birthday party in our house with just our immediate family members we didnt live near extended family. I cant ever recall a surprise party or any friends over ever. The birthday person usually would be asked what they wanted to eat for their birthday. So it could be pizza or have mom make something special or they could even decide no cake but ice cream instead. Parents tried hard to make it look like we had a decent amount of presents but we were on a budget. But I have no complaints. And different birthdays get more attention to others. In some cultures in the US the 15th birthday is important others its the 16th. Hitting 18 21 and 30 are pretty big milestones too and usually every decade after. When I was a kid turning 10 or 11 was pretty important because it meant I could get a special ID card to get on military installations. Sometimes you just go to work I think it depends on the family and person. I dont do anything for my birthday. A lot of negative stuff happened on mine. I have friends though who have parties. Been to a surprise party. I know people who think the week is theirs. I think it’s fairly accurate according to movies but really depends on the person. Some people wanna go crazy and all out but others like a lowkey gathering I take my birthday off if at all possible when it falls on a weekday. Side effect of a summer birthday and never being in school as a kid. Id rather not be at work as an adult. This year my birthday is a Saturday also the day of the week I was born. Probably going to log out an few minutes early Friday afternoon as soon as a 2 hour meeting ends. In most places Ive been at least back when I was in the office it was the birthday person who brought in treats for everyone else. Otherwise unless it was a big birthday 30 40 50 60 retirement people didnt do parties. They would however wreck your office/cube with a massive amount of decorative items. Balloons streamers confetti etc. But at least that nightmare was only once a decade. One director I worked for had his office so thoroughly decorated by his managers for his 40th that he ended up decamping to a small meeting room the rest of the week. Way overboard. It depends from person to person. Some folks dont like celebrating their birthday. Others enjoy nights out with friends or family. Some do get surprise birthday parties. I think generally parents try to go big for their small childs birthday. Partner and I are pretty introverted folks we celebrate our birthdays with special homemade dinners at home. My birthday was a few days ago. Other than getting a phone call from my parents it was just a typical Wednesday. No celebration or cake. It varies a lot. Some people don’t celebrate birthdays. Some people do small celebrations. Some people have big parties. I know one person who had a surprise party. Most of the time parties are not a surprise. I prefer a low key celebration of my birthday. I might get some special food dessert go to a movie or do something special with just my spouse and daughter. I would hate a surprise party. Surprise parties are not nearly as common as tv would like you to think.. ive never been to one most kids have a party with friends and family on the weekend closest to their birthday.. adults might get taken out to dinner or some might have a party where all their friends go to the bar or something but birthdays really arent a big deal especially when you’re an adult Surprise parties happen sometimes but they really only work if the person has a nearby network of friends. If someone wants to do a surprise party it’s usually a milestone birthday or coinciding with some other big life event like moving away soon. Kids’ parties have evolved with media in the US. What might have just been a family/household celebration before television became an invite your friends over for cake and they will bring you presents” affair. But sometimes it would be at a fast food restaurant. With Pinterest getting popular kids’ parties became more about aesthetics. Now I’m seeing more kids have smaller groups of friends and wanting to do something more involved. If a kid’s birthday is during the school year a parent might bring cupcakes or another treat to share with the class within what’s rules the school has about that kind of thing. Adults who work in offices are often treated to cake for their work area and a card which are usually presented a couple hours after lunch in a common or break area. But sometimes it’s donuts in the morning instead. This usually disperses within 1015 minutes. Maybe work friends will also treat them to lunch out. Outside of the workplace it can vary significantly based on family traditions personalities friend groups and economic status. Personally my close family household and inlaws take the person to dinner then return to a home for cake and presents. I might get texts for a few friends. Otherwise it’s messages from people who still use Facebook enough to notice your birthday work acknowledgement as previously described and family. I would say it’s pretty typical not even to have the extended family around. It’s usually just my husband and I our kids and maybe grandparents. We used to allow the child to have one friend over too. I make them whatever they want for dinner and we have some kind of dessert of their choice not usually a cake because we all prefer other things. One son shares a birthday with his best friend and that friend’s family is more into doing big things and always includes him. I wouldn’t say there’s any normal way of celebrating that includes our whole country. If it is a weekday I go to work. If a weekend day I do normal weekend stuff. Maybe I get a dinner out of it. Basically in my family at least after about 16 we stop celebrating anyones birthday I dont celebrate my birthday at all so no. Surprise parties do happen though less frequently than you may think from movies. Nearly everything in a movie is slightly more dramatic than real life because while a lot of real life may be pleasant it can come across as rather boring onscreen. I have been involved in at least a couple Surprise parties 1 in which I delivered the birthday person and theyre kinda nice. But only if that person LIKES that sort of thing. A lot of people are not really up for an unexpected social event that involves 40 people and pictures after being at work all day etc. The party I was involved in my friend said her mom knew something was up even though she feigned Surprise because she had bothered to put on makeup. Most birthday parties are a little more subdued maybe just going to their favorite restaurant or something. It depends on the person. I don’t care that much especially as the years go on so I’m happy with a nice meal and a gift from my partner. But he likes to make a big deal about it and do something special every year. It can be a bit exhausting but it’s also an excuse to throw a party and invite all of our friends. I’ve had one surprise party in my life which was nice but is difficult to plan. Your coworkers get you a cake in a flavor you may not even like and everyone in your office awkwardly sings happy birthday to you and signs an ecard with at best meaningless platitudes and more likely happy birthday from Dave in Accounting. In your 20s and maybe into your 30s getting together for birthday drinks is probably the most common way for adults to celebrate a nonmilestone birthday. But even this edges off as people start having kids. Nobody is getting a sitter to have 2 beers with Kyle. Actual parties with presents and entertainment is strictly a kids thing and not all families go for that sort of thing anyway and what it entails and what level of activity is involved is both regional and class dependent. Some people throw a party for a big birthday like 30 40 50 etc. but its not a universal thing. Trips are also fairly popular for this age range and level of celebration like planning a vacation around that time or doing a weekend at the beach in Vegas at Disney etc. depending on what is close/convenient for a weekend trip where you are. We only really do big birthday celebrations for milestone birthdays I go to a Dodgers game every year for my birthday. It’s a fun day but nothing crazy. We call/text the birthday person well wishes on the day and then the next weekend get together for dinner at their favorite place. Husband and I usually go to the movies as well. It’s common for an adult to take their adult friend out for lunch dinner or drinks on that friend’s birthday. Post 52 What is the Midwestern version of a whole other kettle of fish? Hi there! Im a writer who has a Midwestern character who sometimes uses idioms when talking to himself. I need a Midwestern phrase for when it was X sure no big deal but now they were dealing with Y so thats a whole other kettle of fish. Or is that the phrase I should use? I think the phrase you are looking for is whole other ballgame. Another can of worms. A whole nother can of worms And yes nother” is intentional Horse of a different color I agree with can of worms and horse of a different color and will add in a whole different ball game Ball of wax. Thats a horse of a different color or Thats a whole nother thing. Horse of a different color Ive never heard kettle of fish. I can get what it means from the context but what is an actual kettle of fish? Is that a thing? That’s a horse of a different color comes to mind. Thats a whole different can of worms is another well used phrase that is similar Not from the Midwest but one side of my family is they have like 15 of them and I swear they make to point to try not to repeat them. Whole nother Ballgame Ball of yarn Basket of food item eggs cabbages berries *might be seasonal and I never noticed now that I think about it Cans of worms Ball of wax I don’t get this one lol Tacklebox Etc. Similar is Well ain’t that a/whelp that’s a Horse of a different color Side question who is using other kettle of fish? The ballgame and can of worms idioms that were given by others make sense and are universal. A whole nother can of worms but really it also depends on where in the midwest. I have a totally unfounded theory that if youre near a body of water itll be can of worms and something else if youre not by a lake or river That is fairly Midwestern in my experience IN OH IL KS... You need to look into Midwest dictionaries. This is one of the rare cases where if you throw every stereotype you can into one character most of us will nod and be like Ja sure you betcha dat sounds like ma uncle Bill.” Ive got to disagree with the can of worms suggestions. A can of worms is a problem. You dont want to open that can of worms. Meaning you dont want to do that because it will cause a problem. Then there is the saying another/other can of worms. If you do that it will open up another can of worms. This is implying that you have already Opened a can of worms and have a problem and your solution to fix the problem will only make it worse. . Northeasterner here. Why do you have fish in your kettle? Why would you have an entirely different kettle full of fish as well? ... are you boiling your fish? Oh my God I googled it. They boil their fish. a whole nuther I mean I say that and I’m not Midwestern but I’m pretty sure they say it too Do you want it to be ONLY midwestern phrase? Because It will probably be hard to find one that didnt originate east of there. Ive heard kettle of fish in Wisconsin and can of worms but I agree with the other people saying that horse of a different color is distinctively Midwestern. Its the same in the midwest but wed use nother instead of other. What exactly is a Midwestern” character? Like someone generic from Anywhere USA” or a Chicagoan? Maybe you mean an Upper Midwesterner from Minnesota/Wisconsin/UP? What city/state is your character from? The Midwest has 70 million people across a vast area larger than most countries so you might have to be a bit more specific. I’d honestly probably just say something like a whole different beast”. A whole other kettle of fish” sounds oldfashioned to me. As someone from the Midwest Ive never heard of that type of idiom. Good luck though. Maybe ask some of the Midwest state subreddits PNW checkingin. If I used another kettle of fish” I wouldn’t get any strange looks as long as I used it in context. 🐟 peopel say kettle of fish here I think thats fine That’s a whole nother’ dump for a different outhouse. A whole ’nother ball of yarn I think using whole nother kettle of fish” is fine. It’s a little oldtimey maybe. I agree with the other commenters that whole nother can of worms” or a different can of worms” also works well. Also whole nother ballgame” works. Several people have recommended a horse of a different color” which works meaningwise but seems just as oldtimey as kettle of fish.” That’s something else entirely In my many years of life I have never heard anyone say another kettle of fish” Born and raised Minnesotan most people I know say thats a whole nother can of worms. Born in DC but lived in Los Angeles much longer as an adult and ‘kettle of fish’ is common. Not sure why though. Can of worms” has to do with bringing up an additional problem as in don’t open THAT can of worms”. Kettle of fish or can of worms. Or whole different ballgame. Another story Whole different cow to milk I would have thought kettle of fish was Midwestern. You get some walleye in there oof now thats a good kettle of fish! Anyhow not Midwestern but Id say thats an entirely different beast or a horse of a different color. I appreciate everyones comments! He is lost in the corn. &ampnbsp It means someone is all there mentally anymore due to age. It can also be used with people who are very drunk/high but it isnt that common. &ampnbsp * Thats a whole other box of rocks. * Thats a whole other ballgame. * Thats a whole other can of worms. Those mean that something is very different. we built a shed so we should build the house. yeah no thats a whole other can of worms. Yeah no means no. What region is whole other kettle of fish from? Ball of wax Ball of wax Iowan here A whole different ballgame. A whole nother thing. Can of worms is more let’s not open that can of worms” meaning let’s not get into that whole mess. Either a whole other ball game or a whole other can of worms. Ive never in my life heard of a kettle of fish and Im surrounded by water Michigan A whole different animal. Kettle of fish? Wouldnt that absolutely destroy the flavor of the tea? I dont use a kettle most Americans microwave water... but they are used for fish in addition to tea? I agree with it being a whole nother ball game. A whole different can of worms would work well too I think Born and raised in Ohio. To me implies a messy situation. I agree with others who say horse of a different color or a whole new ballgame” are more fitting. They might also just say That’s a whole nother thing entirely” or something like that. Fun fact in Wizard of Oz there is a reference to That phrase always makes me think of Wizard of Oz. Horse of a different color? Whole nuther ball of wax”is what I heard in Missouri growing up. That’s a completely different bucket of shit!! When things go wrong A whole other ballgame or can of worms Why are the fish in a kettle 😭 Ballgame definitely. Baseball comes to mind first when saying ball game but yeah lots of sports here. Well thats a fine howdydo! Also whole nother can of beans or bucket of worms. A whole other bag of chips is a common one. A different ballgame is another common one. Thats a whole other deal. is one that I use pretty commonly. Jokingly Id say a whole other casserole. Seriously Id say theres more than a few of them. You got a whole nother ballgame another can of worms or you just dont use an expression and say thats another issue in itself. Thats a whole other story. Another bowl of soup Im in Ohio whole other kettle of fish is definitely used as is whole other ballgame. At least...I use both but then again Im old 😄 I’ve heard well that’s a whole ‘nother ball of yarn” and of course that’s a horse of a different color” which oddly has a different meaning if you are from Oz. I think this is plenty to work with. Thank you everyone. I dont need any more suggestions 😁 Where in the Midwest? Ohio’s gonna be different from Wisconsin which’s be different from Kansas. Grew up in Ohio but I still recall hearing the kettle of fish phrase. There are of course lots of lakes ponds and rivers in the Midwest. People do fish and eat fish here! Ball of wax. Ball Game Beast or Animal are common Post 53 How common is a daily bagel for breakfast outside NYC? I live in NYC and here its obviously very common for folks to have bagel and coffee as breakfast. We are known for that. But outside this region it feels to me like bagels arent much of a thing. So my question to you is if you live outside the NYC area but in the US how many people do you know who have a bagel almost everyday for breakfast? Its a very common breakfast Every grocery store in my area makes fresh bagels in the morning which definitely get shopped im in different stores as part of my job. I always get one in the morning myself. People outside of the city of New York eat bagels. Theyre huge as in popular not size in most of the Northeast US south Florida and worthy of honorable mentions in many cities like Chicago and LA basically in places with big Jewish populations historically. They are a thing in some parts of Canada too they have the Montrealstyle bagels which you can find in the northeast also. Many. It’s common. There are whole shops with bagel” in the name. More than that chains like Panera are everywhere selling bagels. Offices will have them picked up by the dozen. That said I’m guessing breakfast burritos are the choice just as often where I live. I never get the burrito I sometimes get the bagel I mostly eat oatmeal. It’s totally a health thing or I’d be all over the burrito. As a native NYer who left a few years ago it’s always been a weekend thing for me. But as I get older it’s more of a once every other month thing. Being more health conscious is a big reason. People eat bagels everywhere dude. I prefer an English muffin myself. Very common bagels are common in Michigan too. Tim Hortons and Panera sell them which are international restaurant chains. Every grocery store has them as well. You can get bagels in pretty much any grocery store in the packaged bread isle. Theyre not going to be the best bagel youve ever had but are an effective food delivery service with butter cream cheese or whatever your topping of choice is. Its not a daily thing but we eat bagels. Im more of an English muffin person. Bagels are too much bread for me. Pretty common but Ive noticed bagels are more common in the northeast than the south Midwest. It’s common It is one of the most normal and common breakfast foods there is. My favorite bagel shop in town does lox and tomato cream cheese and capers. It’s my favorite and they also brew coffee from my favorite roaster. That spot is a gem. bagels are eaten outside of New York yes Anyone else feel like Reddit is a big social scraping tool run by marketing companies? Like a bagel company for instance Yes I know many people who have a bagel every morning for breakfast. There are even whole stores around here devoted to selling coffee and bagels in the morning. Very common in stores but there are very few bagel shops compared to coffee/donuts at least in MN OR northwest FL and AL all places I’ve lived. Coffee shops especially chains will usually have at least a bagel option but they’re nowhere near as good as a fresh bagel and an east coast bagel in particular. They exist but they’re not a significant cultural force. I probably eat a bagel about as often as you have a breakfast taco I live in Eastern PA and grew up on Long Island. Its just way harder to get a good bagel here. It exists but its not as easy as NYC and surrounding areas. There you can pop into a deli and be on your way. The grocery store bagels around here are garbage. Also you cant pop into a grocery store and get a bacon egg and cheese or toasted with cream cheese. Its just a raw bagel. I have a bagel place about 25 minutes from home I buy a dozen or so at a time and freeze. Then we can unfreeze 1 or 2 to make breakfast at home. There was a period of a few years in the 1980s where I had a bagel with cream cheese almost every morning before school in Dallas TX. I mean frozen Lenders bagels but still. It was pretty common. Bagels are very common everywhere Ive lived. Ill say this though I cant find onion bagels anywhere. Its plain cinnamon raisin and everything. Kroger has these terrible cheese and jalapeño ones too but no one carries just a basic onion bagel. I’m in the south and I don’t know anyone who eats bagels for breakfast unless they moved here from New England or California Probably just as common as it is in New York. There are lots of bagels and bagel shops in Chicago. I have a whole wheat bagel and some cottage cheese most mornings. I don’t know anyone by choice so I can’t speak for others. Its very common. Daily? Not common. Bagels can be quite fattening especially with cream cheese. Weekly? More reasonable We get a bag of bagels every weekend or other weekend. S Florida. Lots of Jews and New Yorkers around. None but I don’t really know the daily breakfast habits of people outside my home. I used to eat a bagel for breakfast every day. Its very common. My go to breakfast. I love home made Everything or Pumpernickle bagels with vegetable cream cheese! I dont eat them though because of all the carbs...but they are wonderful! There are 2 bakeries downtown that make them fresh and you get them right after they come down the rollers and go into the bins...the ones in a grocery will never compare. I would have to assume its common but not as common as NYC. Its such a cultural icon here. Every time my friends who went to college out of state came home before even going to their house depending on the time of day they had to get pizza or a bagel first. A solid bacon/sausage egg and cheese is basically a hangover cure here even though itll probably make you feel worse lol. I teach in Brooklyn and my kids are munching on bagels in my classroom all throughout the day. Uhhh we eat a lot of bagels in Austin Texas. We also have a large Jewish population so that might be part of it. We also eat bagels. They just aren’t as delicious as nyc. I personally prefer bialys which I haven’t found a good one outside of nyc In the Milwaukee area bagels are about equally as popular as burritos or croissants or other forms of breakfast hand food. It seems more common at hotels in particular for some reason. I tend to have a season of heavy bagel consumption followed by a year of not touching one. Ive had a bagel from New Jersey absolutely in another category than what we have in MKE. It was my favorite part of my visit. I love bagels. Dont have them every day but a few times a month isnt unusual. I eat a bagel every day that I work in the office I live in NY. I grew up on Long Island so bagels were everywhere. It’s a joke that every strip mall on LI has at least one of the following bagel store deli pizza place or nail salon. When I moved to Albany I was like where’s the bagel store? They told me Bruegger’s which is a chain. The best bagel I had in Albany was at Panera bread or market 32. Now I live in the north country and I’ve found a really good little bakery in the middle of nowhere that makes bagels that are as good as home. It’s 20 minutes away from me so bagels are a treat not a daily occurrence. People here never celebrate with bagels or stop at bagel stores everyday. It’s just not a thing here. There’s a dunkin a McDonald’s and a Stewart’s and people on the go usually get breakfast from one of them. Very common in Boston. Ive been a bagel guy for decades usually an Everything with bacon egg &amp cheese. I can still remember my introduction to bagels over 40 years ago when I was ordering breakfast in San Francisco with a couple friends from NYC and they ordered bagels with lox and cream cheese. I dont like salmon so I got one without the lox and they grew on me very quickly. I moved from NYC to Denver. Plenty of bagels around but theyre not good enough to choose as breakfast when the breakfast burrito game is so strong here. There are other better options. Where as there are no better options than nyc bagels anywhere I don’t actually ever ask people what they had for breakfast so I only know about what happens in my house. You can get bagels so some people probably do. I have had bagels for breakfast but not for a long time. I usually have a low carb breakfast so no bread products. My spouse never eats breakfast. My daughter has yogurt or a smoothie type thing. In St. Louis and I get one on occasion but its a higher carb breakfast than I usually go for. In Los Angeles youll see a lot more donuts than bagels. Were known for our donut shops with the pink boxes its a whole thing. Some even have giant donuts on the roof its more than just Randys. You can get a bagel but I wouldnt say bagel cultures big here. Maybe on the west side but not in real LA. Extremely common I live in upstate/Central Western NY and bagels and coffee are a breakfast staple here too Cleveland Ohio… eat a lot of bagels here. Bagels outside of the NY metropolitan area are typically not as good…spoken as a Michigander When I lived in Massachusetts it was very common. Now I’m in Florida and somehow my usual everything bagel with cream cheese habit has disappeared…. Bagels are extremely common everywhere I’ve ever lived including in the rural Deep South. Here in DC bagels are everywhere. What I wouldn’t give for a good biscuit. 😢 Pretty common but they are all terrible outside of the NYC metro area. Texan I thoroughly enjoy them though dont often have them. Im terrible at waking up in time for breakfast and if I do bagels are up against Tex Mex breakfast food and thats a tough choice. Maybe you should actually leave that region for a moment. Experience the rest of the country. Bagels are everywhere with variety and everything. Im going to go a step further and say New York bagels are mostly only a big deal to New Yorkers. When I was working in Chicago a bagel pack that included a few spreads from Einsteins was a frequent reward from our boss or another benevolent boss to celebrate Friday or a job well done. I always have bagels larger ones from the grocery store bakery on hand even retired for several years to have with spreads or leftover proteins chicken beef. Daily bagels are uncommon in my experience Ive lived in the mountain west and Midwest all my life. You can usually find a couple good bagel shops in the big cities in those regions but outside of that most people are eating store bought bagels with store bought cream cheese and are not doing so regularly. I just made a toasted bagel egg and cheese sandwich for breakfast yesterday in SW Indiana. My family and myself eat bagels often I have a bagel most mornings and I’m on the west coast. They’re big in LA home of the world’s best bagel. Theyre delicious but living in California they sucked. We had hard water and bagels just werent as good there. Im back on the east coast and its bagel city! I never had a bagel until I was 15. So not common for me to have a bagel. Im in my 50s and have a bagel maybe 15 times a year. I dont know anyone who eats them daily but I also dont know anyone who eats bread and doesnt like them. I usually keep a pack of everything bagels in my fridge occasionally I like to toast them and make a sandwich. My wife and mother prefer plain bagels with either butter or cream cheese. None of us prefer sweet bagels. Bagels are popular everywhere but they never taste as good as in NYC/NJ. That’s what I are almost every day in elementary school. I’m not a breakfast person so I’ll take the bread and cheese. I’m in south central Virginia. There are no bagels anywhere here. After living in NJ for most of my life it’s quite a disappointment. I did find a bakery once a few years ago that sold a sad attempt of a bagel. Abraham’s does big business in far North Shore Mass. Many people buy prepackaged bagels to eat in the mornings. I like mine as the buns of a breakfast sandwich with a sausage patty cheese egg and a little sauce Heinz 57 is my favorite for this. I can alternatively eat mine with cream cheese and a bit of jelly. I have a bagel and lox for breakfast at home quite often and live in Arizona. I will also have a bagel with jalapeño honey cream cheese and strawberry slices or other seasonal fruit as a topping once in a while. Peaches are good on the spicy honey too. Bagels here are not the same quality as nyc bagels though that’s for sure My home town has a bagel festival every summer. Although you probably wouldnt recognize the bagels as bagels. They are not much like actual bagels. SoCal. People get bagels every once in a while but not daily. Many people I know in my office watch their carbs so bagels are out of the question. The ones who do eat breakfast prefer a breakfast burrito or muffin Every supermarket bakery in WA makes bagels not good NY bagels but they try none are boiled some are definitely better than others. most are like pre packaged Lenders. I eat a bagel with cream cheese every morning on the way to work. I was raised in NY Minnesota. Havent had a bagel for breakfast in years. I don’t know anyone who eats a bagel for breakfast and I probably have 1 bagel a year. Plain bagels are for celebrating. I dont eat them every day but I eat them often enough that the folks at the bagel shop near my workplace automatically know that I want an everything bagel with jalapeño cream cheese. I live in the South and Im about 40 years old. When I was a kid Id say never in my area. Bagels really werent even available. Now its very common. I’ll buy a pack of bagels and we’ll eat them for a few days. Then I don’t buy another pack for a couple of months. Same with English muffins. Pretty sure you can get bagels at McDonalds Bagels up until the 70s even into the 80s were exclusively a New York into New England thing. It was Lender who had the bright idea to take them to the grocery freezer and make them an American staple available everywhere. But they are still largely an East Coast thing fresh I live in New England and I love them and when I am in Los Angeles for the winter they are not as common there at all. But of course theyre not impossible to find in that huge City there is one or two really good bagel shops. But the chains and big box stores have done much to homogenize what we eat from coast to coast anyway But you still have to come to the Northeast for the best and I have one every day when Im on this side of the country. Even here the styles very immensely very not a fan of the Frozen products I am only a fresh bagel guy how many people do you know who have a bagel almost everyday for breakfast? No one? Ive lived in the midwest PNW Bay Area and Carolinas. Theyre not even close to being daily in other places. Hell in the Carolinas youd be hard pressed to find one in some places. I dont eat breakfast much but when I do I eat a bagel. It is an increasingly popular trend the last several years as bagel shops are popping up all across the US. I grew up in the DC area but live in Atlanta now. They arent nearly as common or as delicious down here 🥺 I dont think I know anyone that regularly eats bagels regardless of time of day. Bagels yes good bagels no. In related news you dont see buttered hard rolls for breakfast too much outside of the NYC area either. Very common. Bagel shops are everywhere though most of the ones by me aren’t as good as any random bagel shop in nyc. Bagels at home are common. Etc. Its probably pretty common to toss a bagel in the toaster and smear some cream cheese on it and take off for work. also contributes to how fat a lot of people get. NYC bagels are special. Other parts of the country may eat bagels but in most cases they’re not boiled fresh. They’re bought in bags from the grocery store and toasted. They’re basically bread cut into a bagel shape. Breakfast here in California is more likely to be Greek yogurt fresh fruit eggs avocado toast or maybe a morning bun or scone. I don’t enjoy the bagels much where I live. They aren’t the same as the bagels I grew up with. It’s all about the tacos here in S Central TX. My town has an excellent NYstyle bagel bakery so around here theyre very popular. Then of course theyre available in pretty much every grocery store and a lot of fast food restaurants incorporate them into their breakfast menus. I got a dozen bagels at a local bangle shop outside NY on a Tuesday and went back Saturday because I ate all of them. Even the ones for my husband. I told the lady at the counter when I went to replace my husbands bagels. She said oh so these are *shame bagels* thanks for putting a name to it maam. Chicago has a decent bagel scene from the Loop up through the northern suburbs. Kansas City used to be a bagel wasteland but we now have one pretty good New York style place Meshuggah. A Jewish guy who used to make them for private events...people convinced him to open a shop. It a welcome oasis! Its not exactly New York but the vibe is closer than anything else we have. Before that it was the realm of Einstein and Panera a.k.a airport bagels. None of our grocery stores make good bagels. Most cities seem to have one or two good bagel shops unless theres a bigger Jewish population. Then youll have more options. I live in a Midwestern city with about 1000000 people and we probably only have like a dozen real bagel shops. My wife and I love bagels but it’s usually just a one a week treat on the weekend since good bagels aren’t super convenient and you know Carbohydrates and all….. Very uncommon bagel shops are a thing but they’re not great here. People eat bagels but I don’t know about everyday. And we dont have delis and bagel shops on every corner so bagel eaters have to plan ahead. I do quite often. Loads of people I know buy bagels regularly for breakfasts. In the larger cities and surrounding metropolitan areas it might not necessarily be a daily habit for a lot of people for some it might be especially if they’re transplants from NYC or other cities but bagel shops are fairly common and have been in some areas for decades at least since the 80s and 90s. There are several chains as well. I worked at one for a short time in fact. I don’t rightly recall if it was in the late eighties or midnineties it was one or the other at a chain called . There are other chains as well some regional some national such as and that are pretty popular and offer great quality. Of course there are also independent shops especially in areas with substantial Jewish populations. My dad lived in Florida and it was his daily routine to take his dog for a walk to the local coffee shop and get himself a coffee and fresh bagels for himself and anyone staying at the house. In Texas it is very hard to find good bagels. Like there may be less than 10 good ones in the entire state. As a result we have tacos for breakfast instead. I do. My breakfast most mornings is a bagel with cream cheese and scrambled eggs and a little fruit I grew up in PA live in Florida now. Plenty of bagel shops around here guessing all the NY expats had a big influence I grew up mostly in the DC area and bagels were pretty popular there as well. Ive heard theyre much less popular in the Midwest. I wouldn’t say every day but it’s pretty common I pretty much only eat bagels when they are including with breakast at a hotel. So a few times a year at most. Not super common but its not unusual either. Saw it a lot more in CA than TX I grew up in Southern California. My brother and I ate bagels every day for breakfast for years. Shout out to Western Bagel. I’ve lived in Alabama and NE Illinois. I’ve never seen evidence of anyone who does this. While I’m sure they exist in NE Illinois I don’t think it’s common except in certain towns. I’m sure for some it is but for me it isn’t Bagels are too heavy for breakfast in my opinion. Im in a small town in North Texas and I can get bagels whenever I want them at the grocery store or almost any restaurant that serves breakfast. Its not exactly my go to daily breakfast but I have a lot to choose from tacos donuts kolaches biscuits etc. If I wanted to eat bagels daily I absolutely could. Im 4 hours north of NYC. Bagels are BIG business up here. I eat a bagel every single day of my life Detroit? Common. Although TBF there was an awesome bagel place in SLC that I got every morning. Very common for my family we are in Memphis. A lot a third of my office gets a bagel on a regular basis from the bagel place down the street. I eat them rarely. too carby. Pretty common in my area of coastal VA. Extremely common. That said the bagels are generally lower quality I’m in Alabama and grew up here. I eat bagels for breakfast. Reading this while eating a bagel as an American. Not that common where I live. The bagels generally arent good enough to justify eating bread and cream cheese for breakfast every day. I go through random periods of wanting a bagel sandwich on the regular and we have like 18 bagels in our house right now. My coworker’s husband is a baker and she is over gracious with sharing Bagels were part of my childhood in CT big time Philadelphia bagels are legit Visited our oldest daughter her first semester at college in Boston. Her younger sister was 13 at the time. This was little sis first bagel experience ... she called the cream cheese bagel butter. I make my bagels at home and Id say I have one at least every other day on average. Common! I love bagels and cream cheese for breakfast. I live in Pennsylvania and have a fresh made one most every morning I would argue that bagels arent as common around here as most people I know eat at home but coffee/bagel shops do alright because bagels and coffee are delicious and portable. I grab a bagel most mornings. More when I worked outside of my house. Place down the street makes their own. Zatar w jalapeno cream cheese baby! More common than a soft pretzel for breakfast outside of philly but thats all I got We like bagels and there are bagel shops around but I don’t know anyone who eats bagels daily weekly or even monthly. Just every now and again or in meetings when someone brings a bag to share. I have one basically every day. Bagel with cream cheese a tall glass of milk or orange juice and a spoonful of cottage cheese or a Chobani yogurt. I eat breakfast pretty early &lt6am so I generally just get a pack of 6 bagels from the bakery each weekend. I love bagels and would eat more of them if I had time for breakfast every day and didn’t need to watch what I eat I’m not really familiar with how everyone eats breakfast. For me bagels are a treat. I couldn’t eat one every day I’d get even fatter than I already am. My breakfast is either oatmeal or low sugar cereal. I’m in Texas and my daughter had either a croissant or a bagel every day. She does prefer bagel thins because she can only eat half of a regular sized bagel. Post 54 Have there been cases of gentrification in any American suburb town or inner city area without the complete displacement of its original long term residents and have lead to positive intercultural and class diversity? Author PureChampionship3993Post Text In the suburbs of Sydney many yuppie families who grew up in affluent areas of Sydney’s North and East are priced out of the areas they grew up in. Now there have been talks about the possible gentrification of Bankstown an established working class Lebanese and Vietnamese community suburb once the new train line is extended to there personally I don’t see it as a bad thing just so as long as the children of the long term residents could go to the same schools as the exyuppie families. The Philadelphia Fed and University of Chicago have collaborated on research around gentrification. An important paper came out in 2019ish. Heres the abstract Gentrification modestly increases outmigration though movers are not made observably worse off and neighborhood change is driven primarily by changes to inmigration. At the same time many original resident adults stay and benefit from declining poverty exposure and rising house values. Children benefit from increased exposure to higheropportunity neighborhoods and some are more likely to attend and complete college. Our results suggest that accommodative policies such as increasing the supply of housing in highdemand urban areas could increase the opportunity benefits we find reduce outmigration pressure and promote longterm affordability. In Chicago it’s funny because the Latino neighborhoods got gentrified” but only because the Latinos made enough money to move to the suburbs so hipster white kids moved in. In theory if everyone in the neighborhood owns their homes gentrification would be a mostly positive thing for them. This is actually pretty common where I’m from in the suburbs. Builders construct new houses for the people moving in. Then developers build new shopping centers. And over the course of like 510 years you can completely change the value of a suburban town. Sometimes it feels a *little* artificial but I think most are fine with that if it means they have many more stores and restaurants near their home. I’m not sure how long it takes for the changes to positively influence their home value but I have to imagine the rising tide is lifting all ships. Interculturally you see a lot of new faces moving into the town not just rich white people. In fact these towns were usually more white before this kind of stuff happened. From what I’ve seen the worst of gentrification typically occurs in areas with extremely competitive housing and a population that primarily rents. If they are exyuppies that have been priced out I dont think that would largely contribute to gentrification. Right? I would look at Newark NJ which is in the midst of gentrification. Mayor Ras Baraka has done what I hear to be a very good job in avoiding displacement of its local population while bringing money into the city. Well it’s not exactly gentrification but look up community land trusts”. This is a strategy mostly used on a neighborhood basis not city wide as far as I know. The goal is to keep the area in community control discourage displacement of residents and better the quality of life. I’d say this is sort of gentrificationadjacent in that it often improves and stabilizes areas. It is not gentrification as in displacing residents. There’s a number of neighborhoods in various cities that you could read about. Mixed results. It’s often a good idea though if the community can pull it off. Not that I know of. Increasing prices until the original residents are priced out is pretty much the definition of gentrification. The people you label the original long term residents” aren’t the original residents of those cities. If housing wasnt so expensive itd be a good thing. Making your town cleaner safer and more enjoyable to live in is a noble cause. But we have little new building at least in the northeast and a constant stream of transplants and immigrants coming in so no matter what the birth rates are the population keeps increasing and theres nowhere to put everybody. Aurora Colorado. The gentrification was east African immigrants who made out. Most areas in the US remain mixed cultures if rich or middle class almost no one cares about race or culture. When the rich take over an area the poor and middle class are often forced to leave either by higher rents or higher property taxes due to rising property values. The middle class then sell their homes and buy new ones in a less costly area with may force the poor to move again due to higher rents. When the rich decide an area is too crowded they often move to less better place their homes are converted into apts for the middle class When cities start use rent control to help the poor more affordable housing is created for about twenty years However Landlords often stop maintaining their property and sometimes let it go for taxes which reduces the amount of housing. Detroit is the best example of the end of this cycle in the 1960s it was the home of rich today it is mostly abandoned buildings and vacant lots. Gentrification is a good thing. Like oh no this shitty neighborhood is becoming safer and has viable businesses now....stahp! has always been a hilarious thing to oppose. A lot of Latino neighborhoods have selfgentrified over the last 30 years. A lot of Philadelphia is just mixed neighborhoods its a really cool city in that way. Gentrification in Philly proper seems to be more building to building than on a neighborhood basis. It does have its yuppie hoods and hood hoods but the middleish areas are a real rugged mix. Where I live in NYC it’s like ground zero for gentrification because this is the neighborhood people go to when they can’t find an apartment anywhere else and you can tell by the demographics by just looking around. While there is a diverse population black white Latino young old families sweaty hipsters as this is New York the original foundational Puerto Rican population of the neighborhood is mostly gone. Super small coastal town in CA US. Was voted best 10 beach towns in popular mags. Now they’re building huge complexes with ocean views and pricing out locals and young families. School enrollment has declined Gentrification isnt a real thing Post 55 My fellow Americans what do you call your favorite sugary bubbly drink? Soda? Coke moniker? Pop? Pepsi moniker? Bubbly? Its different around the country. Where I grew up all my life weve called it soda. Im going to grab a soda brb. Down in the southeast some extended family calls it coke. Were gonna go grab a coke do you want one? Up north I lived for a few months doing some intern work and people up there called it pop. When I visited California a lot of people referred to it as grabbing a pepsi in a moniker for any sugary/fizzy cola. What do you guys call it in your neck of the woods? Soda or coke but regardless I mean Dr. Pepper Soda California born and raised we say soda. Never in my 32 years have I heard anyone just use Pepsi” or Coke” interchangeably with any cola. If they said they’re grabbing a Pepsi they’re specifically grabbing a Pepsi. Michigan it’s pop. There are multiple heat maps on this subject. https//archive.nytimes.com/ideas.blogs.nytimes.com/2008/09/11/thesodavspopmap/ https//www.reddit.com/r/MapPorn/s/EjTTaDjaoO Pop! I remember when I was in grade school and I moved from Ohio to Maryland my classmates giggled and kept having me repeat pop”. Lol. I grew up in the Midwest where its called pop and I called it pop growing up. I moved to the southwest at 13 and lived there til halfway through college. Its called pop there too but one day the word soda came out of my mouth and its been soda ever since. My kids also call it soda in spite of being surrounded by people who call it pop. I lived in Texas for a couple months and I ordered a coke at some restaurant. She asked what kind. I said coke. She said ok what kind. Like wtf? I want coca cola how hard is this? I asked what kinds are there cuz I was so confused and she listed every soda they had including coke. I said I want coke and apparently at that point she finally understood. 🤦🏻‍♀️ Soda [deleted] I grew up in SoCal and it was soda.” In Texas it was cold drink.” Its pop and you can line up to fight me on it. NorCal everyone calls it soda Its a pop here. Calling it a soda is reasonable. But calling it a coke is a sign of mental illness I’m Californian and I say soda. My uncle from Illinois says pop. Indiana Pop The NYTimes did a map of American accents that gets this and a lot of other things correct down to almost the county level. https//www.nytimes.com/interactive/2014/upshot/dialectquizmap.html I call it soda but a lot of people who called it something else when they were kids call it soda if they live on the east coast. Pop Pop Pop Soda Generally? Soda. Usually? The specific name. Coke. Soda but I don’t drink any. Always soda. Soda Soda Pop. Minnesota. But sadly soda is taking over. https//www.reddit.com/r/MapPorn/s/v8Y4qrJNsO It was pop in the midwest where I grew up. Everyone calls it soda or just names the drink in other places Ive lived. I call them cokes. But I also dont hardly ever drink them anymore not very healthy and now they taste too sweet. Used to love root beer especially however. Soda from the pop machine i’ve always called it soda but i’m the odd one out because i grew up in chicago and everyone around me always called it pop. i have no idea why i never assimilated. All soda being coke is kinda dying here a lot of colloquialisms are dying in my area of Nc though It’s mainly becoming Soda but then again there are some that are sticking around like a ghost I always say soda or soft drink when referring to a sugary bubbly drink in general. But use the type or brand name to be specific at a restaurant. I am from Tennessee and I actually think its weird when people call everything a coke. That doesnt even make sense. Theyre all coke. But Id understand it if you said soda or pop. Somehow it seems most strange for Pepsi to be a default word! Tonic. Im old It’s always been soda for me. Pop just sounds kind of old fashioned to me. Everytime I say soda people say You must be from Milwaukee. Were the only part of the Great Lakes region that doesnt say pop. Im told it had something to do with the breweries in Milwaukee switching to soft drinks during Prohibition and feeling that soda was a less ambiguous term than pop. Grew up in western NY and everything was pop. Went to school in Long Island in 91 and it was all soda so I switched. Been soda ever since. Soda. Or whatever brand it is. Coke Texas Grew up saying pop. Moved to California and now I say soda. Soda. Pop” is a noise. When I lived in North Dakota it was pop. When I moved to Texas when I was 10 a teacher told a kid they were going to get a pop and I was so jealous that they were getting a soda but they got spanked in the hallway. This was back in the 90s and I was shooketh spanking never happened in North Dakota!! And thats when I immediately quit saying pop for soda 😟🥺 Soda. Used to go down to Dublin TX for the Dublin Dr. Pepper that used cane sugar but quit that after the shitstains at Dr. Pepper/Snapple sued the Dublin people into oblivion. Soda but my mom calls it pop. Im originally from Oregon. I say soda. But I’ve lived in multiple places. Most of the people here in WV say pop which is funny because they all think that northerners are the ones who say soda and Southerners are the ones who say pop but they’re completely wrong about that. L. I call it a coke. As in y’all want a coke? Yeah. What kind? Diet Coke. What kinda Coke y’all want” is a common question here. Pop Any other word is incorrect Soda but my rural family called it soadie. Being originally from Minnesota it was pop. After I joined the military I realized I was in one Hell of a minority and eventually took to calling it soda to keep people from staring at me. Only soda Visited family that called it pop made fun of them relentlessly for that. Soda or cola. I loved going up through Wisconsin and Minnesota and when the waitress called it pop I was like ohhhh she said the thing!” to my kids who rolled their eyes at me. Soda Pop would be its full name Coke cocola soft drink or just drink. Soda. This is the most common in New England. That said older generations often said tonic. Pop Either coke for everything or the specific name. Im originally from dahn air on da sahside of Pixburgh. So I say pop. If I ask for a soda thered better be some ice cream in it. Im from Alabama. I definitely grew up in the camp of asking at a restaurant What kind of Cokes do you have? Which means do you have Coke or Pepsi? I hate the word soda or pop or especially soda pop. As an adult I have adapted into using the word soft drink. Therefore I would ask what kind of soft drinks do you have? Beer Coke soft drink cold drink or soda WV here. Its all called coke. What kind of cokes ya got? Mt dew Pepsi dr pepper sprite... Though I know some older guys out the holler that will call them dope still Growing up here in New England and until the 70s we all called it tonic. That how it was labeled in the supermarket. It is interesting that the name only stuck in the NE because it came from down south where Coca Cola was originally marketed as a health tonic” and sold in drug stores Coke. But I mean mountain dew. Around Boston you might hear it called tonic by some old timers. Mostly now it’s soda though. Tonic Coke or CoCola. The only special drink is a Cheerwine. Well thats not fully true Dr. Enuf is special too. **If I want my son to grab me a Sprite Id say** *Son go on in the kitchen and grab dad a green coke* **If I want him to grab a Dr. Pepper** *Son grab me a red and white coke out that cooler* **If I want him to grab me a Cheerwine** *Son reach up that top shelf and grab your paw a cheerwine* Pop. Coke. Even if it is a Pepsi...it is a Coke. Sometimes Ill say cold drink. Im in Louisiana. Growing up in east TN my family all said Coke as a generic word for carbonated sugar drinks. Wanna coke? Yeah. What kind? Sprite etc. I somewhat still do this but mostly say soda now. I’ve never heard anyone refer to it as moniker Dr Pepper Baja Blast But why did you put moniker after Coke and Pepsi? The Blackberry Dr Pepper is my current goto. Beer. 🍺 I live in Georgia. All soft drinks are Coke. As a waitress I knew to ask which kind? whenever someone would say they wanted a Coke because 90% of the time they didnt actually want a CocaCola. Beer. I grew up in the South with the obligatory Coke for all carbonated drinks. But then I moved to an area with a very mixed group of nonSouthern transplants. I now say soda but despite 40 years of living here it still sounds weird to me. Dew My sisters motherinlaw called all things carbonated a co cola.” One time when I was visiting she asked me to get her one and I came back with a Coke but what she really wanted was a Dr. Pepper. I want a liter of cola! SC here. I say soda but everyone else around here says drinks. Lol. As in drinks are on sale 4 for $12 at the store this week usually meaning four 6 packs of 16.9 oz pepsi products. Minnesotapop Tonic. I’m an elderly New Englander. I’m from a pocket of the South where everything is Coke except Cheerwine. That’s its own category &amp no it’s not wine. There are BBQ not grilling outside true NC BBQ recipes where Cheerwine is instrumental in the brine &amp probably the dessert cake too. It has its own culture around here. IYKYK especially if you’re from the Piedmont of NC. Tonic Cheerwine Im from New Orleans. Its called a Cold Drank. They’re all cokes. in new orleans we call it a cold drink.” soda/soft drink are also popular. Post 56 How often do you males actually wear a tie? When I lived in the UK I feel there were a lot more formal events usually called formals. In the US I went to a private school that required a wearing a tie so I wore a tie everyday in high school. But cant say I have ever worn a tie since except when I was in the UK. Even for job interviews it never really seemed appropriate to really wear a tie or suit!. Weddings and funerals only As never as I possibly cannot. Exactly as often as required. My graduate program had a dress code so I wore a tie every weekday then. Now I sometimes need to wear a suit for work so I wear a tie on those days. Never any other time for any reason. The only times Ive ever worn a tie in my entire life were in the military when I was required to wear my dress uniform. I usually wear a tie when my wife and I go out on a nice date eg somewhere you need reservations and will be spending $100+ per person. Otherwise I generally dont wear them though I do like them. I love ties and am slightly disappointed that nowadays they are often not even worn with a suit in the US. I’m a lawyer so when I go to court and certain client meetings. Also weddings and funerals but I haven’t been to one of either in . . . seven or eight years? PreCovid I’m fairly sure. Pretty much never. I own a couple on the off chance that I need one but even on the rare occasion I wear a suit I usually leave the collar unbuttoned. I wore one for an interview like 5 years ago I think. I wear a tie most days at my work but Im definitely in the minority both in my organization and in the US in general. Why? Well I like the way it looks but it also helps gives me more of professional authoritative air which is helps in my job. Not a dude but a woman living in the US. A man in a tie is exquisite 🤌🏼 Like the equivalent of me wearing a nice dress. Wish I saw ties worn more often. I think this is partially related to social class. Most middle class men will typically only wear a tie for a wedding a job interview or a funeral. We simply don’t have many occasions that call for them and the dress code at most places of employment is fairly casual and becoming even more so. If someone walked into my office with a tie it probably means theyre interviewing for another position. When I wear I tie it is a bolo tie. It’s been years since I’ve worn a tie. I only wear suits at weddings and nowadays I go no tie. There is no other situation in my life that would require a tie. I used to work at a courthouse. Ties every day. Since I left that job never. Literally never. Never unless I’m attending a black tie super formal event or a funeral. I still see men wear ties near the federal/state courthouses downtown but many men wear vests with slacks especially the . I only wear a tie for funerals weddings and the occasional job interview or job fair. Two or three times per week. My job still has a relatively traditional dress code. Church stuff Suit? Tie? Are they still a thing? I don’t even want to wear one to my funeral! In one year for me? More than once but less than 5 Id say. Also depends a lot on where you are in life. If youre job hunting youre likely wearing them a lot more. It will also depend on the type of job you have if its a businessformal job youre wearing one pretty much every day. I wore a tie at a funeral last week and that was the first time I’ve worn one in at least 3 years. I went to a private boysonly Catholic high school. So then it was every day. Since it’s only been weddings and the occasional office function. Weddings funerals church and the rare formal event that doesn’t fall under the above. Probably once a month. I like how they look hate how they feel. I wear a suit jacket and slacks 99% of the time. 0 tie I have one pastel tie for weddings and one black tie for funerals. Thats it. Sadly I am required to wear one as part of my pilot uniform. I wish I could wear a flight suit instead. At my arraignments. I almost never wear a tie but I own one for the rare formal occasion. It depends on where you live and what industry you work in though. On the West Coast where I live mainly you only wear a tie to weddings funerals stuff like that. Certain jobs such a lawyers and certain executives in some but not all industries might wear ties to work but the rest of us dont. I believe its more common for rank and file office workers to wear ties on the East Coast but I cant say for sure. Job interviews and weddings. So not often. Weddings funerals interviews Maybe three times or so in the last 11 years. For 24 years it was every work day at a bank now I should give them to goodwill! Never if I can help it. Hardly ever even for interviews except when i was looking to join a fund. You wore a tie in school was it a school tie or just any tie? My HS here had a school tie but it was rarely mandatory. Dress was casual most of the time. I wore one almost everyday 18 Catholic school. I wore one every day when I worked in an insurance companys records and computer room. Now I wear one when I interview people when the state agency people come once a month and on special occasions. I take two when I go on business trips just in case. Funerals and weddings Mostly funerals. I also have some work events that are a bit more creativeformal so I’ll sometimes wear a tie to those. Some weddings Some funerals These days maybe one business event a year I havent worn one in over two years since my dads funeral Everyday. I’m a statistical anomaly though. As someone that works in law/policy a few times a month. couple times a year post COVID its not very common lol I avoid them if at all possible. Suits in southern California as a whole suck. Its been years. Actually not sure if I own a tie any more. The last wedding I went to I wore a sport coat but no tie. In my industry every man and most women wear suits daily. Weddings funerals court dates job interviews. I like ties so fairly often. As for events when I’m supposed to wear them? once a week on Sundays for church. It depends on where you are and what you do. My state is pretty casual in general and my work is business casual most of the time but I work in an executive capacity and there are certain meetings and committee things where it is expected for decorum but it is also acceptable to wear a sport coat with a button down and no tie. I worked in finance for ten years and they were required every 45 days generally if you were meeting with a client a major vendor or attending a conference or other event. Job interviews weddings maybe. Depends what the job is and how Im related to the wedding. Theres absolutely no reason for them and Im not really interested in wearing one. I wear one frequently almost always in a church setting I dont have to wear a tie for work so really just every couple of years for weddings and funerals. Three times in ten years once to my papas funeral to my wedding and then to my dads funeral. If I never wear a tie again its to soon. They are uncomfortable as all hell. Things have changed after Covid. Even bankers and CEOs have taken it down a notch. My husband is a VP of a company and its all 1/4 zips these days. I dont think Ive worn a tie since 97. Dont miss it one bit. As close to never as I can which is only when I have to wear a suit. Weddings yes job interviews maybe funerals only if they were a very close relative. I just took a cruise and didnt wear a tie to dinner on formal nights. They are a useless piece of apparel as far as Im concerned and I prefer not to button the top button of my shirts if I dont have to. I’m 30 years old and can only remember wearing a tie maybe 2 times in my life both being over a decade ago. I don’t even know how to tie a neck tie. I haven’t even worn a suit since my highschool graduation. Only if Im presenting at a conference attending a funeral or standing for a wedding. I have a few suits for business but usually no tie. I honestly cant remember the last time I wore a tie and I have no desire to wear a tie ever again. Weddings and funerals and begrudgingly at that. Its a pointless uncomfortable accessory that serves no purpose other than being a strangulation hazard. Once a year if that. I keep it tied on my suit its definitely not common beyond funeral/wedding or I suppose court lol. More than most other guys apparently. Not terribly often. These days I wear a partial suit for fancy dinners sometimes with a tie. I wore a full suit for a couple recent weddings. I do wear a bow tie with my concert attire though but that’s different Haven’t worn one in probably 67 years maybe more… and I work in a corporate HQ travel in upper middle class/professional circles. I own 7 ties I wear 1 maybe once a year maybe My friends group used to do suit up Tuesdays” and then that turned into Wallstreet Wednesdays” We would all suit up and go to bars that you wouldn’t typically wear a suit to. I havent worn a tie since high school. Ill wear a jacket to formal events but nobody is gonna noose me again. My sister wanted me to wear one for her wedding. I wasnt a part of the wedding so I said no. Stupid ass garments. Never. Only when I was in the service and rarely even then. I do concrete and stone work. Any excuse to get formal was a good excuse. Weddings funerals and for about 3 years at work. I’m not male but I’m married to one. My husband wears a tie daily for work on Sundays to church and a suit about once per month for meetings. Definitely more than the average man but I’m glad for it. I think he looks so handsome all dressed up! ❤️ Job interviews weddings and funerals. Maybe once a year. That is once a year too often. Rarely. I think in the last 5 years I’ve worn a tie like 35 times. I’m in school to teach music tho so I probably will for concerts once I’m working solely cause I feel like I should probably dress better than the students. Both for professional/maturity reasons but also because i can’t ask them to dress nice if I’m dressed as well or better. Never since pandemic before that when I was an apprentice everyday and when I worked in a bank Maybe 34 times a year for the last few remaining tieappropriate occasions. I dont think Ive ever worn one to work 55m. Id say about a year. That was the last time I was at a wedding. I honestly cant say the last not wedding I wore a tie to. That might be over 10 years. I dont typically wear one to a job interview. In my field wearing a polo is dressing up fancy. Twice in the past 10 years. I live in the PNW where dressing up is usually your nicest hiking gear. I probably Ive only worn a tie a couple times since the early pandemic. Its not really a big thing right now unless your job requires it and a lot of jobs are just remote. Im going to a wedding later in the year so I will have to wear a tie. Weddings and funerals. That’s it now. Other than when I graduated sometimes for sports some presentations rarely prom and occasionally church I didn’t I’m 47 and have never worn one. I’ve never owned a suit either. I guess it depends I work at a courthouse so all the attorneys wear ties every day for court but others do not. I cant remember that last time I wore one. At least 15 years. I’ve worn one 23 times in the last 30 years. I had one at prom for sure. There’s not really any reason to ever wear a suit unless you’re a finance bro or something I literally never see anyone wearing a tie in my city other than on TV. If people need to dress nice they’ll just wear a button up or nice sweater. I’m from the west coast of US but I think they’re more common on East coast. Interviews weddings funerals. The occasional formal dinner or work meeting. Thats about it. I hate ties. I dont kind wearing a suit or sport coat but ties are the worst. Literally not once in over 30 years and I never will. I wont even consider a job with a dress code. For years and years grocery store manager level employees wore a white shirt and a dark tie. No jacket. Even after managers in other jobs shed the tie the grocery store guys soldiered on. No more? I look good in a suit and tie so I wear one every once in a while. Also I am often in courtrooms and it’s expected. weddings wakes and will the defendant please rise. I am answering for my spouse. I have seen him in a tie three times in fortyfive years. Our wedding. My fathers funeral. His mothers funeral. Only when i absolutely have to. Virtually never. For interviews occasionally but thats it. Weddings funerals and black tie events. Formals are basically just a suit without a tie. Id say about 15 times a year average but Ive also had years where Ive managed to go without. Weddings funerals interviews some The last time I wore a tie was my cousins wedding a few years ago. Even the more recent weddings and funerals didnt require ties. From my perspective there really isnt any purpose to them other than feeling uncomfortable. For church. For weddings and funerals. And occasionally for a fancy date. —— I wore one to my first job interview after college… I was also wearing a full suit. I was woefully overdressed. I don’t think I’ve worn a tie or a suit in a professional setting since. Twice recently. Both parents of a friend died 15 days apart both unexpected. Brutal. I wear a tie to the one wedding I go to every 5 years. I don’t. I don’t own one I will never own one nor will I own a full suit. There’s no need for it and they’re wildly uncomfortable oh but you haven’t gotten one tailored to your body they’re so comfortable that way” no just stop. Physically it feels fine but I’m still uncomfortable in it Last time was 1990 when they told us to for a class trip to the Capitol building. Pretty sure my husband doesn’t own one. He would refuse to wear one on religious grounds if he did though. He practices religious plain dress. Never. In grades 38 at a private school for special events. 2 times a year. But I live in Hawaii. Job interview. Occasionally a wedding or funeral not all of them. Had a job once where I had to wear one daily but havent done that for years. Weddings. I wore a tie / jacket to work every day from about age 2733. I’m 41 now and have maybe worn a tie to work 45 times total in the last 8 years. Otherwise I wear a tie to weddings funerals church I go about twice a year for Christmas and Easter and an occasional event like a fundraiser or something. I’d say on average I wear a tie less than once a month. I wear a tie every day to work. Its been about 14 years now. I am a lawyer so every time I go to court. Rarely in the office. Occasionally for funerals etc. I can count the number of times Ive worn a tie in the last 10 years on one hand. 1960s 1970s I had to wear a tie with my Catholic school uniform every day from Grade 1 through Grade 12. I had to go to church every Sunday dressed in a suit/sportcoat and tie. If we went to a wedding or a funeral we had to wear our church clothes. In high school I participated in many speech &amp debate tournaments. Again a tie &amp sportcoat were *de rigeur.* If you do the math in tournament weeks I wore a tie *every damned day*! As a college student I did not dress up for church. I stopped going except for weddings &amp funerals before I graduated. In the late 70s/earlytomid80s I worked in bookstores. I started as the receiving clerk and wore TShirts or work shirts. When I started to get salesfloor duties I started bringing a dress shirt and tie. I left that gig for another store where I could dress casually. In the same period I became a fan of new wave &amp punk rock and would wear ties often skinny ironically. I enjoyed loud wide print ties the wilder the better. A pal who did a semester abroad in the UK brought back a skinny black tie with the legend *Piss Off!* on it for me. I wore that quite a bit. My 1980s1990s sales attire tended to be a Tshirt with optional sweater or a flannel or chambray shirt. I would wear a coat and tie to a job interview. Once hired by my last job I never had to dress up like that. I used to do volunteer political work and that often involved putting on a jacket &amp tie to look respectable. We would have meetings that included dinner at restaurants so we dressed up a bit. We might get our pictures taken for the newsletter or the local paper. Im Retired Guy now. I only put a tie on for a funeral or a wedding. Daily for work. Maybe once or twice a year Weddings and funerals. I have a professional” job working in an office. I haven’t once worn a tie. In fact I have just pushed what I can wear because who’s going to call someone out on that? im a teacher every day haha Exclusively when forced to. Virtually never. Weddings funerals job interviews fancy dates I wore a full on black suit to work one day. My director noticed pulled me aside and asked if everything was alright. It was Halloween. I had a spoton Wil Smith from MiB. I made a J badge and everything. So yeah not super common anymore. 30 years ago though! Never Those days are over. I havent worn one in over 20 years. Christmas Easter nice dinner dates weddings funerals. I usually wear a blazer or sport coat to church but rarely include a necktie. When much younger fairly often. For about the last 35 years never. Weddings and Funerals If bowties count once or twice every week or so for work. Cater weddings and events on weekends so part of the uniform includes a vest and bowtie to look nice. Hatching matching and dispatching. Usual special occasions like weddings and such but I don’t think I wear a tie more than a couple times a year for over 10 years. Glad few jobs aren’t so dressy anymore lol. Wasn’t long ago most office jobs were more strict about formal attire. Now most are business casual to appropriate casual If I have my choice never. I had to wear one for some classes when in school. Ive worn them for some formal events. Weddings and funerals in the past but last dozen or so Ive gone to I do t bother. I dislike the feeling around my neck. I also dont have tie clip and dont enjoy having a piece of fabric flying around my chest when I move nor do I care enough to buy a clip Id use a paper clip before I spent money on something like that. I also dislike button up shirts and if I wear one I rarely if ever anymore button the top button for similar discomfort around my neck. I also own a suit jacket Ive never once worn one of my dads old ones thats still in good shape. I very much dislike dressing up. A pair of khakis or jeans with a generic no design Tshirt is what I wear 95% of the time granted for funerals and weddings I have nicer slacks and button ups Ill wear. for a while i was wearing one a few times a week. now its been a few years since i wore one at all. Some weddings and some funerals I never wear one. I am proud of my buttons! I dont even own a tie at this point. I havent needed one in 15 years. Its been a decade since Ive worn a tie. Every event Ive been to in the last 10 years has required a dress shirt and dress pants at most. I wear them rarely now but I used to wear one every day at work. Unfortunately if nobody else does at your level in the organization people treat you weird and constantly ask why you dress up. I only wear polos now to fit in better. Post 57 Have you been called for jury duty if so what was your experience? Author ConfidentGuess4638 This subreddit is for civil discussion political threads are not exempt from this. As a reminder * Do not report comments because they disagree with your point of view. * Do not insult other users. Personal attacks are not permitted. * Do not use hate speech. You will be banned permanently. * Comments made with the intent to push an agenda push misinformation soapbox sealion or argue in bad faith are not acceptable. If you can’t discuss a topic in good faith and in a respectful manner do not comment. **Political disagreement does not constitute pushing an agenda.** If you see any comments that violate the rules **please report it and move on!** *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* I sat in a room all day reading a book and was sent home. I sat in a room with a bunch of other people for about eight hours. I watched a few movies on my phone. At the end of the day a guy walked in and told us that every case for the rest of the week had settled so we could all go home. He gave us each a check for nine dollars and we went on our way. Been called a few times served once for a week on a murder trial quite intriguing experience Yes a few times. Each time Ive been called into *voir dire* for a criminal trial and immediately dismissed when they find out Im a lawyer. I got called in pretty quickly pulled into a court and was the last seat of the jury selected for a week long case. Felt like my worst nightmare come true. Actually really came to value the experience and completely changed my opinions. It is very very important to be selected as a jury member and you should not avoid it. I know i would want serious people on my jury if i ever had to go to court. Anyway i helped put a pedo behind bars and vindicated a mom and daughter Got called in said hello to the judge because hes a family friend immediately dismissed. Ive been on call for jury duty multiple times but have only had to go in once. That one time was grand jury duty. It was only 1 day and was fairly interesting. The other people on the jury were pretty reasonable people so that made it better. We stopped one case from moving forward. This one police officer came in trying to press assault charges on the defendant. Which would be a big deal if their record said they assaulted an officer of law. Thats a felony .He was like 17 or 18 if I remember. He was walking not driving home drunk. The officer tried to stop him and grab him. When the officer grabbed him he resisted he pulled away and they both fell to the ground. The officer claimed an injured shoulder in the fall. I probed the officer with questions trying to assess when how or if the defendant actually attacked the officer vs them both falling when he was resisting. The officer couldnt claim that happened so we rejected the petition. Yes. I have only been called once. I ended up serving on a jury as a matter of fact. It was a civil case meaning someone was being sued. I have once. It was a lot of fun for me actually. Sure it has boring parts but it was really cool seeing our legal process up close and being able to actually have an impact on it for something that one day I might need. I didnt get chosen for the trial though. But those of us that didnt had some good conversations afterwards about why we werent and the case itself. Genuinely a good experience for me. Maybe Im just optimistic not sure why others hate it so much though I do get why you may dislike doing it. Been called 34 times. Got out of it the first 23 times because I was in college in another county from where I was registered. Last time I had to go and sat in a room for 3 days and they never called me. I had zero courtroom/legal experience because I had never been in trouble with the law so my only frame of reference was courtroom dramas. I vividly remembered the scene in My Cousin Vinny” where the judge got salty with Joe Pesci’s character for not wearing a proper suit and I didn’t want to be held in contempt so I showed up to jury duty in my best 3 piece suit. Cuff links pocket square and all. I regretted my wardrobe decision when I noticed how everyone was in business casual attire. I noticed a lot of people staring at me out of the corner of my eye and many men snickered and made a comment to me point blank. I was sent home in the first round. I’ve sat on 5 different juries. It was very interesting and kind of fun. The cases and our verdicts Drunk driving criminal Guilty we did not sentence Car accident injury civil found for the plaintiff awarded medical expenses but no punitive damages Rape criminal Not guilty Double homicide criminal Guilty life in prison without parole Domestic violence criminal defendant accepted a plea deal in the middle of the trial and we were dismissed I got eliminated I think because I was too excited and too happy to be there. I REALLY wanted to get to be on jury duty. I was on a jury for a manslaughter trial. It was three days. Absolutely wild and surreal experience. The defendant was found not guilty due to Florida’s Stand Your Ground Law. He was getting attacked by some thugs outside his sister’s apartment and did what had to be done to prevent herself from getting killed. I have been once. In the historic gorgeous NYC courthouse downtown too! As a newly naturalized immigrant I was looking forward to the experience. You present the letter go through security and sit in a huge hall with a lot of great paintings and murals. Seating is plentiful. Bathrooms are clean. You fill out a long questionnaire. Then you get a number. And then you wait. Until youre called for the voir dire which is jury selection. Over 2 days I was called for 5 trials. Got dismissed on first 2 trials. Third one they found a conflict of interest cos I worked for a sister company of a plaintiff. Fourth one both lawyers interviewed us all one on one. They asked about my job. Later I was dismissed. On the fifth trial yay! I finally got selected as a juror. On a fender bender involving a cab. But before opening statements they settled. So never actually got to serve on a jury. After that they let me go saying expect to be back in about 4 years. Yes in college. It was fine. My case was super sad Ive been called twice but never chosen to serve on a case. Ive been sent a jury summons twice in my life. Neither time did I need to show up. Are you asking about receiving a notice to report for jury duty or actually being seated on a jury? I get called every year. I report. Sit in the big room. About half the time I make it as far as voir dire before being excused. As soon as they find out I have a JD Im done. Id love to actually be seated just out of curiosity but never ever wouldve allowed someone with a JD to be seated when I was actively practicing. Yes but I was in Iraq both times. Got called in college. Sophomore year every single person I knew who lived in the dorms got called. In MA you can change your date to anything youd like in the next 612 months. We all moved it to the day before the dorms closed. Judge asked any reason you cant serve? I can serve today but Im moving out of state tomorrow. I was easily the tenth person he heard that from. Not happy but couldnt really\* do anything about it. Made us all wait in the waiting room until end of day. We did fill out the voir dire survey. It was some civil case someone in trucking being sued or suing. So if you wer connected to trucking in any way they send you home. Its been over 20 years now finally got called again this year. My job pays me full salary for jury duty so i was like this could be interesting. Night before you call them to see if they still need you. Nope stay home dont come in. \* I think judges actually have a lot of authority here and can force you to serve. But it would effectively be forcing a lot of 19 year olds to be homeless. So just had us chill. I was a juror on a murder trial. It was the most moving experience of my life. Massive waste of time. Show up by 800am sit in a room and read until lunch go get lunch come back to the room get told they dont need us and we can go home. And get paid an insulting $5 for my trouble. Beginning of last year I was called for a murder trial. Sat through two days of jury selection was selected as alternative 1. Last day of trial juror number 3 was dismissed and I was promoted. Lasted about a week. Deliberated for 1 day. Very surreal experience with a somber ending. Even when you know beyond a reasonable doubt someone is guilty it is sad to sentence someone to life. Ive served on 2 juries before. Its an intense experience that we all took very seriously. But I hope I never have to do it again. Ive served on two juries and they were both amazing experiences. I learned so much about police procedure. I recommend it highly Twice I went down and sat around all day doing nothing one of those I was about 3 people away from being questioned. 3 times Ive called the night before and they said they didnt need me. Been called twice. Got chosen for the jury twice. First was a real estate fraud case and second was a murder trial. As much as jury duty messes with your routine both trials were interesting and fun”. I got called a few months after I turned 18. My mom was 46 at the time and had never been called. I got called and was put on a trial. Jury voir dire took 1.5 days trial was 3 days deliberation 1 day. Even when youre on a trial there is a lot of waiting around because the lawyers or judge might have other things on the docket that they need to take care of. I found it super interesting but i didnt have to arrange child care and my work paid my my regular salary. I enjoyed it even though there were the expected conflicts in a group of 12 semirandom people. I got the chance to make a small difference arguing with the help of some casual knowledge of civics and the law id never get to otherwise employ. Would do it again. Several times. I know far too much about the law that I’m always one of the first asked to leave at the interview stage. I made it into the courtroom the defendant was seated across from us and the judge was questioning the jury before the lawyers did their challenges. All of a sudden the man next to me began to shake uncontrollably. The judge asked him what was wrong. He said I know the defendant.” She asked him how he knew the defendant. He said they had gone to middle school together. She asked him if he could be objective. He said no. Imagine being that afraid of someone that you knew from middle school. Anyway we took a recess at that point. That juror was dismissed and when we came back in the defendant had decided to accept a plea. The charge was for a home invasion where four people had been murdered. Wait get called answer questions go back and wait. Get called answer more questions go back and wait. Get called again and got sent home. Not a big deal at all Not very interesting but my college professor one day informed the class that students cannot be summoned for jury duty because it can impede their studies. A week later by pure coincidence I was summoned. I returned the summons with my reason for ineligibility and that was that. Woo I remember the case involved a dispute over a tree on someones yard and the damage it caused when it fell over. It was fuckin stupid. had to take the day off and drive 2 cities over to sit in a room without being allowed to bring in my phone for 4 hours till they screened everyone and then sent me home made 1/4th of what I wouldve made that day if Id worked and it cost me about 10 times as much in gas. Ive been called three times. The first time I sat in a room for a halfday before being dismissed as not needed. The second time I was placed on a jury. The case took three days. It was fun. The plaintiff had been injured in an accident and basically was obligated to sue the other party to see whether their insurance would be made to pay before the plaintiff could sue other parties like the municipality or state. We concluded that the defendant was not at fault but the whole thing seemed procedural. The third time was during COVID and would have been virtual. I wasnt selected but didnt have to wait around to learn that. I got called once. Our rural county courthouse didnt have a jury holding area big enough for us all so we were in an empty courtroom then stuffed into hallways and the baliff breakroom. It turned out that the prosecutor called in the largest jury pool he was legally allowed then shuffled us around as a strategy. When the defendant saw how big the jury pool was he pled guilty and took whatever deal was available. Turned out it was a human trafficking case. The judge thanked us for our time and excused us from jury duty for 2 years. All in all it was worth my morning to know a trafficker went to jail and I got paid $12. Once. Went in sat around all morning and a group of people got called for a trial. A bit later we got an hour for lunch. About an hour after lunch someone came in and said go home we’re done for the week. Lol. Called and dismissed before they got anywhere near to my place in line Called twice both times I was exempt due to being in undergrad out of state. Now I live in a small county and have not had a chance to be called even though I think it could be a neat experience. Kinda glad I’m not though since with a county population of 25k or so it would have to be a high crime or highly litigious area for me to be. I have been called for jury duty three times in my life. Im 52. First time I was put on a case that took a month. Second time I sat in a room never got called. Third time I called the number to see if I was needed and didnt even have to go to the court house. Notified by mail twice to call the night before to see if needed. Cancelled both times. Im kinda disappointed that in my 25 years of adulthood Ive never been called. One time. I went in and it was post covid. They had IT issues and had to send us home. A few times. I am usually picked empaneled and dismissed. Once or twice I’ve been picked for civil cases Ive been called three times and served once. Was a really fascinating experience and absolutely nothing like on TV. What amazed me was how much lawyers can really dig up dirt on people. Its honestly really scary how much of a persons life regardless of how mundane it may seem can be used as evidence in court. Ive been summoned a few times but only once did I have to go. In that case I sat in a room with a book to read. I got called to go into a courtroom once where they asked some questions and I wasnt chosen. Went back to the big room and about 15 minutes later all of us were sent home. My husband has actually served on a jury for a domestic case. The trial was only the one day but the jury wasnt completely in agreement based on nitpicky things. My husband then reminded everyone that they would have to come back again the next day and waste their time so since these werent big issues could they just make the decision that night. The two people holding them back realized they didnt want to come back and stopped fighting the nitpicky stuff. They agreed the defendant was not guilty. Sat around most of the day. Found out I knew the arresting officer. Was sent home shortly after that. Yeah. My dad is a fed prosecutor. They never have me even show up lol. Meanwhile my grandma got called once and she doesn’t speak English. Like at all. The court thought we were lying about it and my dad had to take her and prove for like 4 hours that she doesn’t actually speak English Been called five times got to see a lot of the process but never served. They have a saying in the court system when you request a jury trial you are putting your future into the hands of twelve people who couldnt get out of jury duty. Last year I just sat in the room for a day. Its coming up again this year with a different court. About 30 years ago I was on a jury. It was actually pretty stressful because of the kind of case it was. In general Ive moved around enough that I do not get called often. Yes. Went downtown and was in an auditorium of like 300 people. We all got called into seperate side rooms for different trials. I ended up being an alternate for a murder trial. So I sat with the jury the whole trial went back with the jury during recesses but when it was time to deliberate I was separated. I found out the verdict at the same time as everyone else even though I was back sitting with them when it was announced. I got my dates mixed up. Phone rang at 8AM. You need to be at the courthouse. Went. Didn’t get picked. I went to the wrong courthouse and freaked out because theyd think I didnt show up and I didnt write a letter asking to be excused. Luckily I recognized this girls mother that I knew working there and told her. She called the other courthouse and came back and released me. On the other hand my dad always wanted to be called and wouldnt ya know we finally received a summons for him just a year after he died lol so close. Yes but it was my home state of Connecticut calling me and I lived in Colorado at the time. So I just responded with a set of my military orders and didn’t have to go Yes. I was called to the county court and ended up being potential juror 25. The juror selection was like 40 people and I didn’t expect to be selected since they would have had to find issues to reject 1015 people in front of me. It took about a half day and I mostly just sat on a bench in the courtroom. I don’t think the lawyers asked me anything. I’m a lawyer now and was a paralegal when this happened. I didn’t know the lawyers but I met the defense attorney a few weeks later when she moved into my office suite building. So I found out the case was some kind of public intoxication charge that they were fighting and won. Went to the courthouse basement signed in sat in a big room with like at least 100 other people judge came in explained what was happening I went back to browsing on my phone after she left. Then we had lunch. I did get called eventually but I guess the case got canceled since everyone in my group got to go home. Got $20 for basically just sitting around. If you go bring a book or something you’ll most likely be there for a while Ive been summoned three times. The first time I showed up and got put on a jury. We started the trial but one of the witnesses said something they werent supposed to and the judge called a mistrial. I got another summons a few years later in another city. Since this was less than 4 years after my previous summons I got exempted and didnt have to show up. Last year I got summoned for federal jury duty. I was on call for a month. Every Tuesday I had to call the court to see if I needed to show up the following week. I never got called in. Yes. 34 times. Once ther was a brief tutorial video of how t b a juror. Once served on DUI. The jury was hung until I pointed out that the defendant admitted that he was affected by the alcohol. How can you be affected and not influenced? I was called when I was in college like 150 miles away from my permanent address. I was able to get a deferment. I was called again that next summer. Spent a few hours in a courthouse in Detroit. Got lunch. Got sent home. Haven’t been called since fingers crossed. A few times. Its boring and a pain in the ass but you gotta do it. Yep. And I actually got on a jury after 3 days. Trial lasted two days and we ended up in a hung jury. Some people couldn’t put aside their prejudices to realize the prosecution hadn’t made their case beyond a reasonable doubt. Told them I was at college and couldn’t do it so they let me off Yup a murder trial. Pretty cut and dried case. 2nd degree murder with a witness. Ive been called a few times most of the time I just sat in a room for a while then was told to go home. Once I made it as far as jury selection and was eliminated during that. And thank fuck. It was a civil trial involving property damage flooding and insurance. I cant think of anything I want to hear about less than I want to hear about insurance. I hitched a ride home 2 or so hours from college after receiving the summons. Forwarded. That parts important. Forwarded. My friend volunteered to drive me alllllll the way to the courthouse where Sacco and Vanzetti were tried only for me to walk to walk in and have the clerk verify my address. When I told them where I lived she looked at me like I was an idiot which I was and was able to politely inform me that sir you cant serve on a jury here you dont live here. Please update your address. Jury of your peers and all. Whoops. Several times over the years. Been dismissed mostly Referred to a county court twice for followup. One pled out and the other I was struck because I knew one of the police involved since that particular Justice of the Peace was about a quarter mile from my house. I sat as an alternate once on a landlord/tenant dispute in civil court. It wasn’t for a huge sum of money but when questioned one of the jurors said can I give each of you that amount to go home. The landlord said deal” and honestly had I not been an alternate I would have gone against him for being oily as helland the facts of the case Ive been called twice and the second was just within the last few weeks. The first time I showed up a few minutes before report time and because of this I was closer to the back of the line waiting to get into the building. Myself and the few folks behind me were sent home shortly after because the court had enough people that showed up and signed in already. I wasnt in trouble and had my summons signed off on and then I was on my way. I was told I was good for 3 years. The law in my state says that you can only be summoned every 3 years. This was March 2023. I was just called again in midMay of this year which is clearly less than 3 years since I was last summoned. I called the courts and told them I was called less than 3 years ago. They looked me up in their system and verified this. I was immediately excused. So Ive never actually spent time in the selection process or on a trial but those were my experiences being summoned. I got picked for the first case on Monday morning and was done by Wednesday afternoon. That was for regular jury duty. For grand jury I was an alternate and had to listen to cases for 1 week a month for 2 years. However since I was an alternate I did not get to vote. Was sent to a room with the others alternate while they voted. That was 2 years ago. I still see cases on the news that I heard details of. Got called once. Found it much harder to get off the jury than TV makes it seem. First question was are you a resident of [x] county as all jurors must be in [x] county? My anwser was no. Moved 3 weeks before had updated drivers license. Showed the judge. Was not removed from the jury pool. Second question are you members or your family lawyers. My reply was I was not however about 9 of my family members are. Was not removed from the jury pool Last questionHave you or your family ever been a victim of kidnapping. Again answered yes. Was a kid wasnt successful. Still was told I couldnt get off the jury. All remaining people were given a number they started at 1 debated if that person would be an acceptable number. Only got off the jury because they settled on jurys + alternates before my number came up. To this day I still dont understand how that first question didnt immediately get me removed from the jury as I legally wasnt allowed to be on it. The other 2 were bias questions but I can see why either lawyer might want to take a chance. Ive been called for jury duty twice. Once living in Phoenix AZ and once in Sarasota FL. Both cases were settled prior to court beginning. I’ve only been called twice. The first time I got excused because I was enrolled in college in another city. The second time I had to serve but I never ended up making it to the selection or trial. We did the introductory stuff were sent to lunch and then when we got back we were told that a plea deal had been made and we were sent home. Called once. Hung out for a couple hours then got into jury selection for a criminal case. I was asked a couple questions by the attorneys. As far as I can tell it was a case where the police found a couple dudes with a backpack that had some weed in it. The lawyers asked me stuff like in a scale from 110 how bad is possession with an intent to distribute and whether or not if you are watching a backpack that belongs to someone else would you consideithat possessing the backpack. Whatever vague answers I gave to their vague questions apparently made it so I didnt get chosen. I was dismissed and went home. Ive been called twice. The first time I had circumstances that the judge dismissed me before it even went to selection. The second time they sent us a text everyday on whether or not we would have to report and I also never had to report that time. I was called for jury duty on a civil case. I did not like most of my fellow jurors I was not happy with the outcome of the case it took 8 hours out of my day and I was rewarded with $40 and some cheeseits. That being said I would do it again because its probably the most direct way we have to try and positively effect our community Got called once when I had a newborn and was breastfeeding so I didnt have to go. Nice timing. Most people get sent home early. Ive been called twice. First time the case was settled before noon and I was sent home. Second was a murder trial and the defendant was pleading selfdefense so a jury was actually assembled but the judge called extra potential jurors than normal because of the time of year. The jury was assembled before my name was called. Several times. Only made it to jury selection once. Was the 1st person questioned. It was for a domestic abuse murder. You would think the 1st question would be if I have ever been in a relationship that was abusive. It wasn’t. They asked if I had sympathy for people in an abusive relationship. I said yes. I was excused Got to the point of being questioned by the lawyers three times and was released after that for various reasons. Other times didnt have to go in went in and told to come back the next day went in and got released within an hour because they had enough people had to sit there all day and got released at the end of the day. It was kind of interesting but moves so slow. Too many breaks where nothing is happening and a 90 min lunch drove me crazy. Ive been summoned twice. The first time I called in at my appointed time and was told I didnt need to report. The second time I did report but was not selected for the jury. I showed up in the early morning locked my phone in a locker sat around doing crossword puzzles for like two hours then we watched a video about the process before going into the court room for voir dire. It was a case about a car crash the driver had already admitted fault so that wasnt at question but rather the question was how much the atfault driver is responsible for the other drivers medical bills. The lawyers asked all of the prospective jurors a bunch of questions. I only answered one when they asked if you or anyone in your family is a medical professional. I responded that my mom is a nurse practitioner and professor of nursing. When they began to narrow down to the final jury I was in the first group that was dismissed. Which was fine by me because the day I was called for jury duty was actually my first day at my new job Once or twice I was called and sat around at the courthouse but was never part of a jury selection process. Once I was a potential juror for a trial but screened out. And once I served on the jury for a murder trial. i have been called but was out of town in college so couldn’t go Cancelled the day before cancelled 2 days before sat around for 4 hours waiting then was sent home. I had to sit in a large room with 500 or so other people for a day and a half. There was only one group of random names called for a potential jury during that time. I just had to call a number every day for a week. Each day it told me I didnt have to come in. I’ve been called but then told not to come before the date Ive been called to federal jury duty and city level jury duty. Both times they bring into an office. I watch a video about rules and guidelines for being a juror. For federal I was brought to a room with a bunch of others where both attorneys of defence and prosecution asked us questions. Removing some and selecting others. After we are selected. They went through a court case that took 5 days. It even hit the local news. They gave us a small pay for the week but that was about it and it was very boring. As for the city level jury duty. I arrived. They put us in a room and left us there for 3 hours. Afterwards a person came in and told us there wont be a court case and we can consider our jury duty fulfilled. Went sat in a room watched a movie did some work on my laptop the defendant took a plea bargin and I got to go home early. I’ve gotten the letter four times but have never had to go downtown. Two of my sisters had to go in but were disqualified during jury selection. One was because it was a DUI and she wasn’t old enough to drink and the other because it was a gas station robbery and she worked for the same chain but a different location and had heard about the robbery through the store gossip chain. Ive been called for the first time for next month. I have been called for jury duty four times. Two of those times I was able to get excused because I was my mothers caregiver. The other two times I didnt have that excuse so I had to go. Both times I spent the entire day in the jury pool room and never even got to jury selection. The first time I brought a book and the second time I brought two books. It was boring. Waited all day in a most boring loud room to be told I wasn’t needed Called once. Was self employed so I stood to lose a lot of money and I tried to get out of it but was not able to. Said all kinds of inflammatory stuff but it didn’t matter. Was on a civil case where a woman with brest implants was in a car accident and they ruptured and she was suing the implant manufacturer. Her attorney was constantly sparing with the judge and we were frequently told to disregard things he said. After a week it was declared a mistrial. I’ve been called a half dozen times mostly excused the first day. Served on one civil case that lasted a week or so and was excused during voir dire on a felony case deemed too similar to a case in my family’s history that would have prejudiced me. I have had summons three times and have never had to appear. At least in my county they send you a mailer with summons with a specific date and you have to call a number on a Friday afternoon before jury selection and it’ll basically tell you if you need to show up to the courthouse the following week for jury selection and so far everyone one I have been called for must plea out or something. My brother did get selected to be on a jury that did go to trial tho and it lasted for a week basically. I got called a couple times. The first two times I was able to get out of it due to my job/financial difficulties. I got called in again about 34 years ago. So right after they lifted all the COVID restrictions were lifted and you could start jury trials again. It was interesting or at least the one that I was on. It was a felony assault where both parties involved were either high or drunk at the time of the assault. So kinda interesting. The defendant was already out on papers so he was going back in regardless because he violated his parole in multiple ways. Several times. Most I was let go before paneling. Once I was too low in the numeric order to be seated. Twice I got pulled out during voir dire one was a traffic case where they asked if anyone had had a ticket in the last 6 months one was a child abuse case where I advised them I was unsure I could be effectively neutral...I felt really guilty about that but knowing myself I dont think I could be. Twice I was seated on a jury but in both cases it was a civil thing and they settled before we were brought in. I actively want to serve I think its an important thing I just havent had it line up. Yup many times. Typically just sitting around all day. Yes. It’s annoying and an inconvenience Yes. It was a murder trial of a 3 year old. The whole thing took 2 weeks jury selection was 2 days of that. I now know what a toddler looks like inside and out autopsy photos mostly. So that sucks. The whole thing was very sad. The prosecution sucked and only charged with 1st degree murder so they looked decisive. The case was clearly second degree murder. They could have charged with both and given us the option to choose which one fit but they were too cocky. In the end we did get him for child abuse and he is serving 10 years. The worst part was the grandma had a book of previous injuries that she documented. She read it bawling her eyes out. She knew it was coming but just couldnt prove it. Child services cant do much with some bruises because kids get bruises. Oh and some jury members were insanely stupid. Talking to them was painful and made deliberation go extremely long. They believed we needed 100% certainty. Since it didnt happen on camera they were innocent. Him carrying the body going home changing his clothes and coming back was completely normal. Really annoying. twice. the jury was dismissed minutes before each trial as the defense atty saw the jury was ready to go and they decided to cut a plea deal instead. I’ve been called twice. The first time I sat in a room all day and at the end was told I wasn’t needed. It was fine. The next I had a two month old baby called and explained I was a SAHM I was excused and told I wouldn’t have to serve until she’s 5. I had to get to the courthouse at 800. They put all of the summoned persons in a big room and we watched a video about the process. Then a judge came in and greeted/thanked us all for our time. She told us there were four cases scheduled for court that day and that if they all settled nobody would be impaneled for jury duty. They let us go grab a coffee from the courthouse cafe and then we all sat there until about 1100 when they announced that all cases were settled and we were free to leave. It was a very boring uneventful 3 hours. Showed up three days mostly sat around and knit. Got asked some questions about inventory once but when picking the jury they went alphabetically and filled the pool before getting anywhere near my name which seems utterly bizarre. Hardest part was trying to write sub plans and finding a sub since I wasnt sure which days Id be out during the week just that I might be out at some point. My first time for jury duty I was selected for a first degree murder trial and the defendant tried to hire someone to kill one of the witnesses. On the first day of the trial we watched body cam footage of the victim right after he was shot. It was a long week. Was called to the jury pool for a highprofile civil disobedience criminal trespass on the grounds of a weapons system factory trial. I wasn’t chosen. While I was sitting in the courtroom spectator section waiting to be interviewed with other jurypool people during what they call voir dire a bunch of uniformed cops in the row behind us made all kinds of sniggering remarks about how the defendants were obviously guilty. I found that disturbing. I wish I had said something to the judge about jury tampering. But I didn’t get the chance. Lawrence District Court Massachusetts I was called three other times and never seated on a jury. I was 1 of approximately 600 that called. It was a highly publicized case where a police was killed execution style and the killer was on the run for over a month. The trial was set to be over a month long and the jury was going to be sequestered they put you up in a hotel room and you dont get any contact with the outside world. The murder did not even occur in our jurisdiction but the case was so highly publicized that it had to be tried in our city. I like so many others could not miss a month of work and supporting family so I was excused after three days of sitting there waiting to go in front of the judge to discuss my hardship exemption. I’ve been selected 3 times only called once and then the day before they got enough jurors and I didn’t get to go. I was so bummed lol. Been twice. Both times got lucky and got sent home before 10 am getting the whole day paid off at work . I am an exception though people can usually expect to stay most of the day if not for multiple days Yes but I didn’t actually have to go my group was dismissed. Despite my best efforts at getting tossed I got selected for a divorce trial between a highprofile doctor and his 2nd wife. Ladys attorney was bombastic tone deaf and absolutely antagonized the jury with his complete and utter disorganization. It was supposed to be a 3day trial and he drug it out to 5 days. It did not end well for his client. The jury got their pound of flesh in the end. I’ve been called at least once every year since I was 18. In 14 years I’ve only had to report to the court house 3 times. All 3 times I sat in a room for a couple of hours and then got dismissed. Ive been called 5 times and its fucking horrible. Yes was selected and sat on the jury for a murder trial. 19 year old shot and killed a guy trying to act tough infront of his friends and now he’s going to sit in prison for the rest of his life… It was an interesting experience to see what’s real from what you see on TV and what’s not. Been called sat around had my interview for jury selection and as soon as I said I worked as a legal secretary I was dismissed. I really wish more counsel in my area used voir dire questionnaires to eliminate candidates before they get called and have to sit through the in person. Yes twice. First time I spent 2 days in absolute tedium and wasn’t picked for any trial. Second time was more of the same except I was chosen. Drunk driving case we found him guilty. It’s an interesting process and my work paid me for a full day plus $12.50 from the court lol. There’s a lot of waiting around so I suggest bringing a book I wasn’t allowed any electronic devices not even a Kindle. It was great. I was selected to be on the jury for a graffiti charge. The usual hours were from 930am to around 3pm with 105 minutes for lunch and two breaks that lasted 30 minutes or so. One time the judge did not show up so I went mountain biking. My employer paid me the entire time. Post 58 What are your favorite party games? Edit Please describe the game for those me who dont know and how many people are required to play. Love a game of cornhole when Im at a crawfish boil. Do you mean like group board/card games or drinking games? Salad bowl. It’s a mix of scatagories charades and then 1 word scaragories. It’s super fun and the group naturally builds inside jokes. Here’s how it works You can play with min of 4 people and probably max of 8. You can play with more people but it gets hard to keep everyone’s attention. To start everyone writes a noun on a slip of paper. The noun can be a mix of adjectives and adverbs but it ultimately has to be a noun. Ex. Blue fox or scrumptious scorpion. Then fold the slip of paper in half once this is important then they put it in a bowl. Everyone puts their slips into the same bowl. Have everyone repeat this step 35 times. Decide how many times as everyone should have the same number of slips in the bowl. I recommend doing an absolute max of 30 slips in the bowl. Aim for 25ish. Now when everyone has words in you split into teams. This should happen after everyone writes words to avoid cheating and planning. Keep teams even if possible. Once teams are decided round one starts which is scatagories. Each team goes one at a time. What happens is one person on the first team picks a slip out of the bowl. They need to explain the noun without ever saying any of the words on the slip. The rest of the first team needs to guess the exact words on the slip. If the team gets it they get a point. Now something I didn’t mention each round is 20 seconds. This game moves fast. But that’s the fun. The team can guess until time is up. If they get a slip correct the person doing the scatagories can pull another slip out and explain it. If nobody on the team guesses the word before time expires 20 seconds the slip goes back in the bowl. After the first team goes the second team goes for 20 seconds. Then the first team goes again but a new person on that team does the describing. You go until all the slips are out of the bowl. Count points then fold the slips back in half and put them all back into the bowl. Now round 2 starts which is charades. Some basic format with 20 second rounds and new actors for each team for every round. However this time the actor must act out the word until the team guesses the word. No words can be spoken by the actor but some sound effects are ok. No pointing at objects. After all slips are guessed count them for each team fold the slips in half and put them back into the bowl. Now round 3. Again 20 second per round and teams rotate the speaker. This time the speaker only gets to say one word to describe the noun. The speaker can only say that one word until the team guesses the words on the slip. If the speaker says um” that’s their word. They can say um as many times as they’d like. But they can’t say any other word until the round is over or the slip is guessed. You can say the one word you chose in multiple tones. The word also cannot be any word on the slip. If the speaker says more than one word or a word on the slip the team guessing forfeits their turn that round. Once all the slips are guessed count up how many correct guesses each team got. The team with the most guesses wins. This got way longer than I thought but it’s a fun game! Moves quick and it makes people act out some pretty funny things. Have fun! Mafia is a fun one. It’s a lot to explain so google Mafia party game. It’s basically a group guessing game figuring out who committed the murder.” My friends and I LOVE to play Dont get me started. Nothing everyone goes around and says oh man dont even get me started on _____. It can be any topic but by the end you need to have a convoluted theory that relates the thing you are started on to an unrelated conspiracy theory. For example the last time we played I said man dont even get me started on house centipedes and ended up with and thats why I dont trust house centipedes because theyre nothing but spies for Bigfoot and if you smash them thats why the deer eat your plants because they reported back to bigfoot and he commands the deer. Its fun to just go off on weird funny tangents and we all push each other by throwing out wild theories. You can also make it serious if you all have things you want to bitch about. Things like dont even get me started on those customers that just put stuff they dont want back on a random shelf and then I have to stay 30 minutes late organizing it instead of doing my other closing tasks and thats why I was 75 minutes late to the party. Everyone needs a pad of paper and a pencil. It starts off with everyone drawing something but not too simple. Bill Clinton jumping a skateboard over a couch something like that. Then everyone passes the pad of paper to the right and the next person writes down what they think its a drawing of. Maybe its not a very good Clinton drawing so they write Conan OBrien jumping a skateboard over a table or something. Then you pass it again and the next person draws that sentence etc etc. Eventually the drawing will turn into something like C3PO dumpster diving. And when the drawing pad makes it all the way back to the original person you all present the series of drawings and written down guesses. There is a game you can buy off the shelf called Telestrations but really all you need is paper and pencils. . Any number of players 2arbitrarily many. Its a game where someone says a person then no more [characteristic of that person.] The next person then has to name someone else who isnt that characteristic then no more [characteristic.] The next person names someone who isnt either of those things and so on. If someone names a person whos one of those characteristics and is called out on it by someone else before the next person goes theyre out and it moves to the next person last person standing wins. An example of a game might look like Tom Kenny. No more voice actors. Taylor Swift. No more musicians. Albert Einstein. No more scientists. John Cena. No more wrestlers. Pat Mahomes. No more athletes. Wait! John Cena was a voice actor who voiced himself in that Scooby Doo movie. Too late the next person already went. Youre not allowed to write down the rules the challenge is to remember all of the rules once youre 20 rounds in both to make sure you dont break them and that you can call out anyone else who does. Each player has a Challenge this is used both for challenging that someone broke a rule and can be used for Name Another. If someone uses a really narrow category you can challenge them to Name Another person who falls into that category if they cant theyre out but if they can youre out. Similarly if you accuse someone of breaking a rule but they can prove that youre wrong and they actually didnt youre out. Kings is fun Drinking Boom cup. Requires 48 people though it is possible with more than 8 you just get to drink less You fill several solo cups with a few ounces of beer or other light alcohol. A single boom cup” is filled all the way up with a harder alcohol. Usually this is just a combination of everyone’s drinks. Place all of the cups in a blob in the middle of a large table with the boom cup in the center. Players space themselves around the table and players from opposite sides take one cup each. When the game starts the two players each chug their cup and attempt to bounce a ping pong ball off the table and into the cup. Once the ball is successfully bounced in the player moves the cup to player on their left who repeats this process. If a player to their left currently has a cup the first player can boom” them by slamming their cup into the second player’s cup. The second player passes the two cups to the left grabs a beer cup from the middle chugs then repeats the bouncing process. If you successfully make a ball into a cup on your first try you can move your cup to any player in the circle. You can give it to players immediately before or after the other cup to fuck people over. By the end one of the cups becomes a stack and the other is just a single cup which creates some fun asymmetry between the bounces needed between the two cups. Last player to get boomed has to drink the boom cup which creates a lot of pressure to get the two cups away from you during the last few cups. Edward Forty Hands. Tape a forty of beer to each hand and you dont get the use of your hands back until you finish your 40 ouncers. The only winners are the spectators who win an evening of laughs. Ruffies anyone with a dime tries to slip it into another persons drink and then you call them out and they have to chug it. Honestly good practice because people start protecting their drinks. Poker dominoes Uno Cards against humanity secret Hitler quarters flip cup giant connect 4 cornhole Shotglass Checkers and Cards Against Humanity At the holidays I like a good white elephant gift exchange where you can open a new present or steal one thats already open. I’d really like to play twister Monopoly and especially Jenga Stump is a good game all you need is some nails a hammer and a stump Salad bowl. The rules vary a little bit and it can be played drunk or sober. It’s always a good time. Edit I was going to type out a long description but someone nailed it already. So not every one shows up and seperates? Men go off to the video game room and us gals stand in the kitchen snacking drinking and complaining about the ones in the video game room. While complaining how our children are slowly killing us? Interesting. [removed] This game called *The Resistance*. It needs 5 to 10 players. You can play it with a regular deck of cards you dont even need a whole deck. Theres some board game company that sells a boxed version with a bunch of cheap unnecessary pieces but thats bullshit. Its way better if you just use regular playing cards. So were The Resistance and were trying to take down the government. But our organization has been infiltrated by government spies. The way we take down the government is by doing missions. If we can do 3 missions successfully the government will collapse and The Resistance will win. But if the government Spies sabotage the missions we lose. We only get 5 chances. Every player is either a loyal member of The Resistance or a government Spy. The first step is determining which player is what. Get one card for each player— a red card for loyal Resistance members or a black card for Spies— shuffle them up and deal one facedown to each person. The cards you pick out depend on the number of players **5 players** 3 red 2 black **6 players** 4 red 2 black **7 players** 4 red 3 black **8 players** 5 red 3 black **9 players** 6 red 3 black **10 players** 6 red 4 black Everyone looks at their card to see what they are. Then everyone puts their cards face down again and closes their eyes. Whoever dealt the cards says Spies spies open your eyes. and the spies look up and identify each other while the loyalists keep their eyes closed. Deal out one red card to each person. So now everyone has 2 cards. Resistance members have 2 red cards and the Spies have 1 red card and 1 black card. These are for going on missions. The next step is to plan our first mission. The person to the left of whoever dealt is the first Leader. They decide what the mission is going to be. Make up something creative like Were going to bomb the CIA headquarters or Were going to orchestrate a jailbreak to free our comrades who have been imprisoned. This is the fun part. The Leader also decides who is going to go on the mission. The team is a different number of people depending on which mission it is and depending on the number of players. #Rounds We discuss what we think of the Leaders plan and then we vote on whether to go ahead with it or to rethink it and do it with a different team. The vote is open by show of hands. If we vote yes the selected team will go on the mission. If we vote no or if its a tie the player to the left of the current Leader becomes the new Leader. The new Leader proposes a different team and optionally a different mission. We discuss that and openly vote it it just like before. This continues until we arrive at a yes vote and finally go on a mission. The way you go on a mission is Every player who was selected for the team chooses **one** of their cards and puts it facedown on the table. The Leader shuffles up the cards and then reveals them to everyone. If the cards were all red the mission was a success. But if *any* of the cards are black that means the Spies sabotaged us. The second mission is planned the same way as the first mission but with a bigger team. The player to the left of the last Leader is the new Leader now. They make up a mission Were going to airdrop living plague rats on the inauguration ceremony so the entire senate gets sick and dies. and select a team. Again the players discuss and openly vote on the plan and if its a no leadership passes on like before. You keep going on missions until either 3 missions succeed or 3 missions are sabotaged. Thats all there is to it. The only other detail to note is if there are more than 7 players then Mission 4 needs to be sabotaged twice if theres only 1 sabotage card it still succeeds. But every other mission it only takes 1 sabotage card to make it fail. Flog the British kid. My favorite is Avalon. It’s a social deduction game for 810 players Ronsex! Everyone gets a sheet of paper. You start with everyone writing down a phrase they pass to the next person around the table. Then you draw a picture describing what was written down. You fold the paper and pass to the next person they wrote down what you drew. Then you fold the paper and the next person draws a picture of what the person saw. It gets funny fast. Cards Against Humanity and the like Pictionary board version Cranium Rummy Cards Against Humanity For outside I **love** me some polish horseshoes Inside Cards. 45’s is my favorite. Rummey’s always a good time Hearts as well. Twister 456 on the dice if you want to place bets JustJack Spin the booty Root Post 59 Do you guys ever remember learning about Australia or Oceania as a whole? In my experience I feel like it was barley brought up No. Its a continent. That’s probably all I learned. Not much in school. The Simpsons taught me more. We learned about how Australia started as a country and the emu war but nothing much beyond that. Yea during elementary when learning about continents.Not much deep history except that the British colonized there too and the mentioning of aboriginals.WW2 pacific theater too. Only that its at war with Eurasia... or was it EastAsia ? The most we were taught is that its a continent thats it Sure in the 80s we did. There was this documentary called Crocodile Dundee. The home of the great thespian Yahoo Serious. It doesnt really come up in history classes. Waltzing Matilda was a song we learned in elementary school music class. In middle and high school there was some talk of the AustraliaUS relationship as one of our allies. Yes. My TX school district did a halfdecent job teaching us about our allies especially Anglophones. It was definitely covered in geography class. Probably because Crocodile Dundee came out while I was in school. For context 40 something raised in upstate NY. I wasnt taught shit about Australia. Geography yeah but anything specific pertaining to Oceana unfortunately no. Nar Vaguely but dont ask for specifics. Oceania was covered in geography and Australias history was brought up in my world history course in high school but briefly. Yeah mostly just Aboriginals and the mistreatment being similar to Native Americans prison continent and crazy animals. Oceania info was more about Samoa and American Samoa and Hawaii Olivia Newton John Crocodile Dundee Steve Irwin Kangaroos and Koalas. That’s about all I knew about Australia growing up. My school taught us about the aboriginals and such and how it started off for white people as like a prison Island. Yes we had basic geography. In 6th grade social studies we did a 2 week segment on Australia. When I was a kid granted it was over 20 years ago it was Australia as the continent and not Oceania. My wife is a few years younger than me and grew up in South America and they were taught Oceania. They were also taught that there were 5 continents and Antarctica doesn’t count. It’s Tonga time In elementary school maybe 1st or second grade we had a whole Australia unit where we had little fake passports one of the classrooms was a plane and we flew to Australia to learn all about it. I very vividly remember learning the songs Waltzing Matilda and the one about the kookaburra. I’m sure we learned more actual stuff but I was little and that’s what stuck with me. I’m old I learned about Australia in grade school. That its a continent as well as a country. That it was a British penal colony you could get sent there just for looking Irish. I never heard about Oceania until about two years ago. I would say no more or no less than any other country that we didnt have a huge history with. It probably got a smidge more attention because of the cute animals but we didnt learn about it with any sort of depth. Yes. Multiple times throughout middle school. Australia the land owned by Emus and Dingos. In school only that Australia is a country Purple worth 2 points easily defended from attack via Indonesia. Lost a land war to birds. Lots of deadly fauna. Rock melon. Yeah we covered it in passing. The first real discussion I can recall was when reading Great Expectations in English class the teacher explaining about Magwich being transported and what that meant. Later it got a chapter or so in history class but no more. Most everything else was picked up from films and Nevil Shute novels. And the Thornbirds of course. We learned about how it began as a penal colony and a bit about the aboriginal peoples there before the Europeans colonized. Not a lot though. All I remember was learning that it was a British penal colony. I learned this back in the early 2000s. It was like junior high world history. Its continent not an Island it was also a prison Colony for the British. I remember asking what happened the prisoners since its a modern country now and all got was were moving on..... Wasnt till college that I got a better picture of the Country. For Australia we learned how the country started Christmas was in the summertime and about kangaroos. For Oceania nothing it wasnt mentioned. I did a report on Australia in middle school? Bob Hawke was PM... The first time. Yes. Geography in elementary school then again in world history We learned about Oceania but not in real depth. Mostly we had a bit of Australian history a few mentions of New Zealand and a map of the rest. I have a really vivid memory of a textbook chapter about a boy from the Pitjatjantjara tribe in Australia. They made sure to tell us he ate grubs sometimes. That’s how I learned what grubs were. Geography and history for sure. Oceania was mostly in relation to WWII. We didn’t learn anything about Australia aside from it being a continent in school. Everything I learned about Australia was through Steve Erwin’s show the crocodile hunter”. I also have family who live in Australia so I’ve learned a little bit through them. Everything else I learned about Australia came from The Big Les Show. No I really just remember learning about it as far as being a continent. But then I spent 8 years in Catholic elementary school through 8th grade and 4 years in public high school. I think in Catholic school one whole year of Social Studies was world history in 5th grade. Otherwise it was mostly U.S. history with 4th grade devoted mostly maybe entirely to history of the state of NJ. All I remember of that was the Lenne Lenape Native Americans. And the fact that the Statue of Liberty is actually in N and not NY. Fifth Grade world history I remember learning about ancient Egypt Rome Greece etc. but not so much Australia. In high school we had 2 years of U.S. History....basically the same stuff wed already learned at least three times by that point...and one year of World History. Yeah our education system sucks. We were warned about the dreaded Drop Bear We learned it was a continent. That was literally it lmao. And I’ve been to Australia and New Zealand. But I learned a lot of that outside of school because it was an ambassador program In world history my school learned a little bit about key points in Australian history. It was mostly post European occupation and a few other things like the Emu War of 32. Id say we probably only spent a few days on it at most. I teach World History. The text/curriculum doesnt spend much time on it. We touch on it briefly when learning about British colonialism but thats about it. The issue is that on a global scale Oceania didnt have much impact. Nonnatives hadnt even heard of it until a few hundred years ago. All I need to know I learned from Crocodile Dundee. What kind of question is this? I learn things. It absorbs. I have no idea where Iearned it. I live in Oceania but we learned mostly about Polynesia and Fiji. I just remember learning about Oceania as a continent and that there were aboriginal/indigenous people there before Europeans. I think that was mostly it? Im sure I learned that Australia was founded as a prison colony in school but beyond that....not much. As an adult Ive read a few books about Australian history which presented basically totally new information to me. FWIW the best but also longest that Ive read is *The Fatal Shore* by Robert Hughes which makes it seem like a miracle that the original colonies survived at all like they took a bunch of London street urchins stuck them on a beach on the other side of the planet and were like good luck and adios. None of the planners considered whether or not it might be useful to have people who knew how to grow food or build shit. An extremely haphazard way to build a community. I havent been in school since the 1980s but I learned about some of the critters that live there and the British Prison Colony and the Great Barrier Reef. I was 15 when Crocodile Dundee came out and 17 when Young Einstein came out. Does that count? We talked a bit about the colonization of the Aboriginals the Stolen Generations and watched the movie *RabbitProof Fence*. That’s all I remember. Nope never learned a thing about it other than from pop culture We didgeridont do much with yall I learned Australia was a continent and Oceania was a collection of islands neither is a hole Off the top of my head I remember learning about their contributions in World War II at least and some biology stuff about the wildlife and ecosystem not necessarily as a whole unit but for example I remember it being talked about a lot when we were learning about evolution. And I remember learning a little about how it was colonized when we were learning about American history because we kind of touched on a bunch of British colonies and the different ways theyve evolved. So I feel like I actually did learn a reasonable amount about it I guess? Definitely not as much as I learned about Canada or Mexico and not even as much as I learned about some European countries feel like the UK France and Germany in particular were covered a lot but I think a pretty good amount. Nope. Other than one of the 5 continents and everything wants to kill you In school I learned about the animals in Elementary school. And I learned a small amount about their participation in the world wars. But most of the actual historical stuff I have learned I did on my own not in school. We were told some basic stuff about Australia. Quigley Downunder told me the most about Australia. I was in my 20s when I found out about Oceania. Sure. Some from a historical perspective colonization prisoners etc.. Some scientific animal habitats things that will kill you with poison koalas and kangaroos. Most of what I know or think I know about modern Australia comes from pop culture Muriels Wedding Strictly Ballroom Jim Jeffries. We all watched Crocodile Dundee. What else about Australia is there to know? /s We learned Australia is one of the 7 continents not much beyond that. The word Oceania” was not in any of my textbooks when I was in school. Nope never learned about that area at all. I dont remember Australia coming up much in school outside of WW1 and WW2 contexts. Despite that I loved everything that I learned about Australia outside of school and wanted to live there. Yeah in world history we learned about Australias start as a penial colony and a bit about the Aboriginals. Also some about the islands in the Pacific but I cant recall much other than some in regards to WWII and the US and Japanese dealings with them. Also though outside the war a bit with explorers like Cook and Magellan but it was more focused on them than the islands themselves. Also I recall learning sime of both Micronesia and Polynesia. Yes but at my school world geography” was an elective for fun/not required to graduate. I believe it was founded by a wallaby named Matilda. Yeah but in geography not really in history. I think Oceania was mentioned briefly twice when talking about colonies and again when talking about early human migration theories I didnt even know Oceania was a thing until I was an adult. I knew basically nothing about Australia besides it was a penal colony once upon a time and that the seasons are backwards there because of the hemisphere thing. We also heard that the toilets flush the opposite way but we also heard that thats a myth. What’s an Australia. No one ever mentioned Australia unless we were watching Finding Nemo. Australia yes Oceania not that I recall. Unfortunately everything I know about Australia is from my own reading or meeting Australians in real life. Outside of that it was only brought up when learning about continents. I think we covered some of its history during a geography lesson elementary and middle school and World History high school but overall Australias mentions were pretty thin in my schooling. We learned about how it was colonized in high school. It was in the 80s so I learned more on my own after hearing songs from Midnight Oil. We had a semester studying the background tactics and technology of the Great Emu War. Thats it. Learned the basics. Its continent the British set up penal colonies there. It was part of the allied forces in WW2. I want to say the first time I’d ever heard of it was when I read 1984 in 8th of 9th grade. I don’t think I realized it wasn’t a fictional place until I was an adult and learned that people in other parts of the world learn a different model for the continents than we do in the US. Not a whole lot. I think we covered Australia in seventh grade geography. Not a damn thing. Always focused on Europe some of Asia and surprise the Americas. We did get a small unit on the Rwandan Genocide but thats the most out there I got in terms of history lessons in school. Really puts into perspective how fucking excited I am about the Punic Wars. My sister is a teacher and I remember she was making up lesson plans about Australia. She baked those Anzac biscuits and took out children’s books about how Australia was a penal colony. Everything I learned about Australia in school can be counted on one hand It was a former British Penal colony It is a continent It exists Yes. Multiple times! Yeah. They brought in a didgeridoo. It existed it started as a prison colony and thats it lmao It was mentioned some but I was interested/obsessed with it outside of school so I did my own research lol Yeah we had a unit on it in third grade Paul Hogan Men at Work and Ozploitation films taught me everything I need to know. First time I ever heard of Oceania was from Orwell A war with emus. That is all. Not at all. We learned about both. Like all the other continents we learned which countries were there. We then had to pick a country to an assignment over before moving on to another continent l. Yes but Im from Hawaii so thats our neck of the woods. No Oceania wasn’t a subject below college. I did. In middle school we were each assigned a country to do an indepth report to present to our class i had Australia. We had to include its history any special cultural aspects economy government wildlife etc. This was in the 60s way before internet. I learned about Australia from crocodile Dundee and the Jackie Chan movie where he goes to Melbourne. Never learned anything about it in school. 0. I read someplace you guys lost a war against emus My son who is in 6th grade just did a 3 week unit on Australia right before summer break. He learned a brief history of the continent and what their current government is like as well as a lot about the biodiversity of the area. So its been quite a while since school and I honestly cant remember it very well but I know I learned a bit. Something along the lines of how it started as a penal colony and how they interacted with the natives. It definitely wasnt as in depth as a lot of other places but we probably spent a week or two on it. Australia and New Zealand yes. Not Oceania. Barley Seems like your English class skipped a bit as well. Not really no. Not in school anyway. The way I was taught history in school as I recall it was mostly US history and then unless it was specifically a World History or Ancient History course or something enough of the histories of other countries to explain their interactions with the US. This means some countries just didnt get covered much. Part of it being a survey course I suppose. Crocodile Dundee was a phenomenon when I was a kid Australia a bit Oceania never heard of until recently Just the general geography. I learned a lot more about Aus from books later in life. I remember learning the word billabong. The first time I ever heard of Oceania was around 3 years ago and I’m 68 years old. How is it pronounced? I learned australia is a continent. Later along maybe now that everybody has a high level of English and in different education/language systems they teach geography different ive seen Oceania”. I don’t know if they’re taught Oceania is a continent or a region of the world but it does make more sense. Because all the countries papa New Guinea indonesia Malaysia etc are overlooked from just asia No. Do I remember learning about Madagascar? The Dominican Republic? Taiwan? No. There are a lot of places that are mostly irrelevant from the perspective of American/Global history. I know they’re on smoko and are big on the Toyota Hilux A dingo ate my baby. Only Australia. I was big into Australia because I was a huge Crocodile Hunter fan. I think I even did like two presentations on everything Id taught myself about Australia back in elementary school Didnt know New Zealand was a thing until Lord of the rings I don’t think the continent was ever called Oceania when i went to school it was all just called Australia and I don’t recall learning about New Zealand or any other country down there while in school. I learned in high school that it was a place that British and Irish prisoners were sent. I knew there were crocodiles and kangaroos and stuff from watching Steve Irwin. I honestly don’t think I knew anything about Aboriginals until the Russian couple did that horrible ice dance program at the 2010 Olympics when I was in college. I went to Australia in 2019 but I don’t know many other people who have been there. Australia does not exist. If you think you met an Australian you really just met a British person or a South African either playing a joke/being paid to persuade the theory that its a real place. The wildlife is an obvious clue. Yeah no. We barely learned anything about the rest of the world Yes but that was when we had to pick a country to do a report on and I chose Australia. I remember watching a PBS Kids show aired on my local TV channel called Kratt’s Creatures where they went to Australia and spoke with Aborigines. That always stuck out to me when I’d think of Australia as a kid. I don’t remember learning about Oceania at all!! Must’ve fallen asleep that day /s Australia yeah but I never heard of Oceania until a few years ago. Interestingly yes. When I was in 3rd grade we studied about basic surface level information about Australia. But I think this was because the 2000 Olympics were in Sydney. Overall I’d have to bet most American schools don’t study about Australia and Oceana all that much. I still know some of the words and the tune to Waltzing Matilda back when I had to sing it in class 25 years ago. Funny the small things you’ll remember. Yes because my grandfather was USMC 19391947. Mostly stationed in Samoa. His place was full of wood carvings and souvenirs. He was shit scared of the Japanese doing to him what they did to Wake and The Philippines. Those stories about Marines shitting their pants while being shelled and digging a hole with their bare hands? Very true. E He was a radar and radio sergeant so he got live feeds of all the fucked up shit going down and how bad the US was having it’s ass handed to it by the IJN as it happened he couldn’t tell anyone in camp except to pass it on by radio and inform the officers. But because of his job doing that I exist. I just learned it existed but that’s about it In elementary school ages 512 I learned that Australia is a continent and it’s called Down Undah.” Also it’s the place where kangaroos and koalas come from. In high school ages 1418 we read George Orwell’s 1984 and that’s where I learned the word *Oceania*. I had to ask where that was. In college age 1822 for me I took an Education course that involved a lesson on why it’s important to let students make mistakes selfevaluate with teacher support and feedback and try again. The guest lecturer was Australian and she had us draw the shape of Australia from memory. We did a terrible job but then we got to compare our drawing with a decent map figure out what we got right and wrong and try again. We all did much better the second time obviously. Basically everything else I’ve learned from YouTube and Reddit. I’m in my 40s. Yes I remember learning about Australia and Oceania as a whole/continent in elementary middle and high school Geography lessons. Not really much Hostory aside from a paragraph or two about colonization and WWII What a coincidence lol I just finished watching a movie called Wolf creek set in Australia where the bad guy asked the good guy to answer 10 questions about Australia and if he answers 5 correct he’ll let him go lol But to answer your question I don’t think we learned anything about Australia and Oceania can’t remember anything tbh. townsvilles certainly a hole. and the Gongs not too flash anymore They don’t teach much about it in school. Aside from the fact that it was apart of the UK and was originally set up as a penal colony following Britains loss of the colonies during the revolutionary war. I’ve learned more about it studying its history of course but the actual level of education provided on Australia in public schools is extremely sparse. I teach World History in an American HS. There are two slides in one powerpoint on Australia in a lesson on the expansion of the British Empire. That’s it. There are easily 100 powerpoint lessons in the year 30 to 40 slides on average. There is more on New Zealand. There is one whole lesson on Polynesian culture which mostly focuses on Hawaii but also includes New Zealand and the rest of Polynesia. You dont really believe in all that do you? The continent was called Australia when I was in school. The main thing I recall being taught is that it was a British penal colony. We were taught that Australia itself is a country and a continent. I learned its a country thats a continent where it is that the Brits sent prisoners there and colonized it pushing aborigines out I honestly have no idea if that word is racist. I apologize if it is. I used the word that was used in my school. I learned about Ayers Rock still called that then kangaroos wallabies deadly jellyfish that its mostly desert and most people live near the coast that Sydney Melbourne and Perth are important cities there that boomerangs and digereedoos come from there and other things I can no longer remember off the top of my head. Not in school I learned about brumbies from The Man from Snowy River. Taught where it was at. That’s it though. Honestly in my high school days I don’t think it was ever mentioned. In college I studied geography and world history so I think it came up there Oceania is mentioned in some contexts because of the history of US imperialism and of course WWII or existing territories like Guam and American Samoa Not much. I learned a lot after watching h2o and becoming fascinated We learned some basics about Australia. How it was founded flora and fauna some other basics about geography. I never heard the term Oceana until I watched NHK World Japanese television as an adult. From what I recall New Zealand is basically Middle Earth. Australia is where they invented boomerangs and all the animals are incredibly venomous. I learned most of what I know about Australia from Colleen McCullough The Thorn Birds Morgans Run. Home of Midnight Oil the band U2 could have been if they really gave a damn. You learn there are seven continents in American schools. Australia is number 6 on that list. Youll learn next to 0 history or culture about it unless your geography class in highschool has someone get it or another oceana country for their country project where they talk for 10 minutes or so about its culture and history. It wont be mentioned in a history class unless its world history and youre referencing a list of British colonies. So no. Not really. But theres a lot of social studies youll just never learn in the US. Id never heard the term Oceania until I was well into adulthood. Is it a newer term? But everything I know about Australia and the surrounding areas I know from TV movies and one commercial featuring Paul Hogan. I learned most of what I knew from watching Steve Irwins shows on Animal Planet school just covered that Australia was the only country that was also a continent though these days it is generally considered part of the larger Oceania and that it had a ton of marsupials. Very little if any history or culture was brought up. Yeah Yes. I went to a public that acted as a prep school. We had to take classes like swim sex ed finance etc. Two of those classes were civics and American government. I learned about alliances and partnerships in those classes and Australia and Oceania were referenced a lot I remember learning approximately 2 things about Australia in school. 1. It started as a penal colony 2. They had an invasion of nonnative cane toads learned about this in an environmental science class. Why would they teach about a continent/ region less influential than a state ca We learned about Australia. Crocodile Dundee brought a lot of attention to Australia. But we didnt learn anything about Oceania. I dont recall even hearing about it until college. Anglo bias I suspect I honestly cant remember how much about Australia and Oceania I learned from school and how much I learned from my parents and how much I learned when we vacationed there in the 1980s. My father taught me about Ned Kelly that much I know. Yes. We did a semester of Australian/Oceanian history in HS. Mostly what I remember is the name Lochlin MacQuarrie. And cargo cults. I learned it was worth two armies in Risk. They drank Fosters. They ate bloomin onions. They talked like Crocodile Dundee. Per Monty Python they were all named Bruce and had lousy table wines. Australia briefly. However I was not taught to call the region Oceania when I was in school. I’m in my 50’s In fact I was in my thirties before I had ever heard the term Oceania. We called the region the Pacific Islands back then. But we did learn that Australia itself was both a continent and a country. Other than that just some random factoids…like it was established as a British penal colony and that its indigenous people were called Aborigines. So just a little a bit about Australia but not much about Oceania as a whole. I learned about it in relation to it being established as a colony by Great Britain. Nothing about it independent from that. To be fair not a very relevant area for United States history or really world history for that matter. Yea. Prison colony kangaroos. I was definitely told to refer to the continent as Oceania many times in school in the late 90s early 2000s. We got maybe 12 sentences in history class about convicts being sent there. We had a much bigger section in elementary school science classes about all the weird animals there. We watched alot of kids shows about the Outback. I know one of them had a rap about Kangaroos. Yeah man Cangaroo Kriminals and the spot where they shot LOTR. My professor was Crocodile Dundee... prob just basic biomes and animals. not anything about politics other than mentioning it was a prison colony That’s a pretty simplistic explanation and conclusion for a complex problem that all similar countries face 1. Its a continent. 2. Sydneys there and it has a funky opera house. 3. Kangaroos Thats about it. I remember learning about Pacific Islanders and that Australians were dirty British prisoners. I thought it would be rad to get dropped off at the beach for being a prisoner. nope all i know from them are spiders upside down and theyre bad at breakdancing No. We focused on the Revolutionary War the Civil War both World Wars and the Cold War. In World History we learned about Ancient Egypt Rome and a little about China. I didnt know it was called Oceania until like a few months ago. I graduated high school in 1998. In geography and geology. But culturally in school no. I learned that disparaging the boot is a bootable offense. We sang waltzing Mathilda in 4th grade. I honestly dont recall Australia or Australian history being part of any curriculum as an American student in any of my classes. We did learn if only tangentially that Australian forces fought in both world wars on the side of the British and especially when we studied WW1 and the Gallipoli campaign but not really any specifics about the history of Australia much beyond they were part of the British Empire and used as a penal colony for a while. To be fair most American history/geography curricula focus on American history or European history. Barely any of Asian history and almost none on Africa outside of the slave trade and Ancient Egypt. We learned about continent and the reef and the general idea of penal colony. But honestly there is little information about oceana that affects my daily life. Perhaps if I studied something else it may be more relevant but there’s only so much info one can teach and specific about oceana aren’t really important to northerners in the scheme of things. 7th grade social studies had a chapter about Australia but I hardly remember anything I was a ham radio operator at age 11. I learned about a lot of countries are areas by talking to them. I was also a voracious National Geographic reader and loved the maps. I was taught the seven continents song in kindergarten 🎵Asia Africa North and South America Australia Antarctica and Eurrrrrrrrope 🎵 Fortunately Ive remembered all 7 continents since then as I should. Throughout my childhood I learn things about Australia through learning about things in nature biological sciences or landmarks for fun. In high school I learned about world history and Australian and Oceanic events were mentioned at some point. Australia and Oceania as a whole arent emphasized enough unfortunately. There was a little bit about like Polynesian exploration and such but not really no I learned Oceania as a continent that included AU and NZ. Post 60 when are Americans not direct? all cultures in their interpersonal communication can be direct at times and not direct at other times. when are Americans excluding New Yorkers/Boston typically not direct? Based on how often you hear no is a complete sentence when looking at advice on how to handle interpersonal conflict I would say Americans do not always like to say no directly. Silence may sometimes be a sign of disapproval or disagreement. If you’re talking passionately about a subject on which we disagree I may choose not to say anything rather than disagree with you especially if we have a limited or strained relationship. It may also be a response to inappropriate or bad behavior meant to make you take a moment and reflect on your poor behavior. If someone is crashing out as I’m waiting their table remaining silent usually causes the customer to selfreflect and realize how much of an ass they’re being. A lot of us are not direct when we think doing so will hurt your feelings or make you feel less than. So fucking funny that New York / Boston is exempted. In the south when it is time for someone to leave either party tends to be not very direct about it. Stand up and say welp looks to be getting pretty late... Usually to hide your embarrassment or our own. As a New Yorker I admit to enjoying forcing people who aren’t direct into being direct. So… is that a yes or a no? I’m confused about what you are trying to say.” You are making the mistake of thinking all Americans share the same culture. Some places are notorious for dancing around stuff especially disagreement or confrontation within the US In my experience the South Midwest and California come to mind I traveled around the country for years for work and it used to drive me crazy as a direct New Englander dealing with some people elsewhere because getting a straight answer was like pulling teeth. JUST TELL ME WHAT YOU WANT!” I’d yell in my head because I knew they weren’t being direct with me Southerners are typically not. If I can be insufferably highbrow here for a second theres an anthropological concept known as High Context and Low Context cultures. High Context cultures rely on various ways to communicate aside from words. Things like shared values etiquette and traditions serve to provide subtext. So the communication can appear subtle or even baffling to someone outside that culture. Low Context cultures typically have more direct communication through words leaving no doubt about what is being said. For example when many people come to the South theyll be confused by the interaction. Southerners tend to have finely calibrated social antennae. Because Southerners default interaction with someone new is polite and receptive which many confuse with being friendly. To Southerners thats just good manners while to someone from a Low Context society its an invitation for friendship. If a Southern is choosing to escalate into friendship theyll actively invite you to something such as dinner a party or the whatnot. Meanwhile if a Southerner doesnt like you then they will typically just be civil. You really have to piss off a typical Southerner to have them be outright rude to you. As a result someone could have a very pleasant interaction with a Southerner come away thinking theyve made an instant friendship and never hear from them again. Of course there will inevitably be the people who say Southerners are fake friendly when they are truly just misunderstanding the social cues. Ive noticed when compared to some cultures we dont talk about money and especially salaries. For example I was training a group of Tunisians really nice folks but they were dying of curiosity about what I made. I finally told them that my boss just paid my wife directly. She gave me a $50 a week allowance but wouldnt tell me what my pay was. 😁 The Midwest has a well known culture of being passive aggressive in Minnesota if someone says Well thats.... Different thats their way of saying youre doing it wrong. Philadelphians are direct as well. It is one of the reasons why theyre perceived as being rude by much of the rest of the country. As a general thing being direct is common in the northeast in general particularly in urban areas and the northeast is one of the most urbanized sections of the country after California. Americans nominally have an easygoing egalitarian culture that is we nominally treat everyone around us as being ‘equal’ in some abstract sense. So anything that pushes these boundaries—for example someone doing something stupid or wrong or different—may get a huh that seems… different.” Americans can also be very indirect about those things which set us apart income and wealth are particularly sensitive topics because it may set you apart from someone else. We can also be very indirect about complements that may set us apart or above someone else—even if it’s in a small way. Wow I love your shoes!” Complement elevates the other person. Oh these old things? They’re nothing special.” The other person denies the elevation. I got them at the Shoes Plus store in the mall.” The other person tells you how you can also be like them. In fact I’ve had this conversation so many times about my Catrike 559 recumbent while riding it’s almost scripted at this point Thanks. I got it at the Bike Guy store next to the Falls of Neuse dam.” When I want to leave the parents house. Slap knees and say welp. 30 minutes later I might actually be able to leave without feeling bad. The US is not a monoculture Southerners tend to use coded language/euphemisms to express negative opinions about people to their faces. Things like bless your heart and God love him. The tricky part it that they can also be positive... Well thats one way of doing things... Bostonians and New Yorkers just wondering what we did wrong. I was about to vociferously disagree with the premise but then I saw the parenthesis. Im from Boston. Lol. the how are you doing?” scale of emotions Doing Great = Any emotion that could be rated as above average I’m Good = Completely average neutral Doing Fine/Alright = Having a pretty terrible day actually Hanging in there = I am one step away from the ledge Pretty much anything to do with the initial stages of dating/sex. Its all hints and nudges until the two involved get comfortable around each other. Are Ppl from Ny and Boston areas really that much more direct? Im from NJ and Ive traveled to different parts of the country. I guess not long enough to notice. Edit Im not implying that there is a difference from NJ and NY culture. I meant are we really that direct compared to other regions. I have found that people on the West Coast are not direct some of my best friends live on the west coast. I also noticed outside of New Orleans in the Old South some people are not direct. I am pretty direct with people because I respect people’s time I lived for a bit in NJ and I moved around so much I don’t really care to relearn social norms for the umpteenth time at this stage in my life. Welcome to the Midwest if anyone is very direct with you you’ve either really pissed them off or they think you’re dumb. We don’t talk in metaphors like the south but usually in dog whistles like oh that’s different” Do people in other countries realize Americans are all unique individuals? Not all Americans are direct. Not all Americans are indirect. Apply this to everything else as well and most of these questions can be answered. When someone wants to end a phone conversation they will say Well I guess Ill let you go. As though its the other person who is trying to end the conversation. I never noticed that until my husband pointed it out to me. Also using the phrase with all due respect pretty much always means you are a dumbass heres how. Im just chiming in here to say that the South and Midwest are miracles of directness if you compare them to many other traditional customs in the world. Mexico and South America. The Arab world. Much of Africa. India China and Japan. Those are gross generalizations but on average theyre true. In many places its extremely impolite to say no so many of the yesses that you get are really no. This ain’t an American” thing it’s dependent on the person. If you ask them about their salary or finances. Yeah I would say that a regional thing or just a cultural thing based on areas because I’m pretty direct but I’m also from New York 😂 There are plenty of Americans who are not direct. Some people are just like that. Im always direct. Dont want to do you or me the disservice of misunderstanding. I think being direct” is a regional thing. Northeast? Direct. Here’s looking at you Boston NJ and NYC. Everywhere else Southern US West MidWest varying degrees of not direct at all. Ask them an uncomfortable question about sex sexuality or race. They’ll dance around it. Note it really depends on the American you ask. Usually negative things If companies don’t want hire you or want to get rid of you. If you smell or have hygiene problems. A restaurant or establishment does not want your business Breaking up with someone. They want to reproduce or practice the reproduction techniques with someone. There is also a stereotype that Americans particularly men can’t say I love you” or verbalize their love for someone. instead getting gifts etc But this hasn’t been my limited experience. And I think that might be some males across cultures? We also don’t say we are going to the toilet” when that’s where we are going. Instead using words like restroom” pitstop” ladies/men’s room etc” Using the word toliet” is considered a little vulgar/gross. Although perhaps becoming more acceptable with British media all over When they are from the Pacific North West. Americans are passive aggressive petty and juvenile. Almost never direct. Source Im actually a direct person and its always perceived as rude and bitchy. No one can handle the truth without emotional meltdown. I dont know about when but when I moved to Virginia and Georgia I really struggled with the fact that people want to talk around the problem and not actually tell you what the issue is. I am originally from Southern California and just could not comprehend the fact that they couldnt just tell you what was wrong. I had to have all my teacher emails proofread for years until I could figure out the best way to state things because I just wanted to solve the problem! I speak very directly to people and state things clearly. Just a normal voice never yelling. And often people feel its very rude or Im somehow hostile 🤷🏼‍♀️ Generally speaking Americans are less direct when providing feedback or directions than people from some other countries. I.e. could you xyz instead of just do xyz. When they want to leave a group function in the Midwest it takes about 10 welp” &ltknee slaps before they actually leave. Some people do it when they want to tell someone what to do but don’t want to seem bossy. I had to learn that when my spouse says do you want to take out the garbage?” what he means is I am busy finishing up washing the dishes but I am stressed out by the fullness of the kitchen trash. I would like for you to please take out the garbage while I do this other thing.” 20 minutes later he’d be like why didn’t you take out the garbage?” and I’d be like I didn’t want to right now.” I figured it out eventually. Money politics religion. Usually when people want to know about these things they ask indirect questions. You usually dont get hey how much do you make etc. Male friends talking to each other about struggles or feelings. Answering how are you. Other than with close friends its a bit of a faux pas to say how youre actually doing. Office/work situations. There can be A LOT of passiveaggressive passivepassive communication and lack thereof Cultural agreeableness. Basically as simple as that. In the Midwest especially in Minnesota we are culturally highly agreeable and really really conflict averse especially with people we aren’t very close with. Passive aggression is our way to partially surpass this on a technicality. I’m way on the assertive side for a Minnesotan but even I have to still consciously tell myself to challenge somebody directly or create tension in some conversations when necessary. It’s just not in our socialization. Despite what the internet shows and mob mentality 90% of Americans are pretty non confrontational when one on one and try to be as agreeable as possible. This often involves not saying what you are really thinking deflecting or changing the subject to avoid conflict. Discussions about money get indirect real fast especially when talking about salary or to people with plenty of it. Were comfortable is a hilarious and polite way of telling someone youve got fuck you money. It’s worse than high school. Sometime nice to your face and terrible behind your back. Other times they’ll come right and say it directly. Like Forest Gump says life is like a box of chocolates you never what you’re gonna get. I’m Irish and I find most Americans to be far more direct than us which I appreciate it. I feel like people are really indirect here about death dying severe illness loss grief. As an American there are two communication styles I greatly dislike complaining about someone behind their back and slippery language that gets your point across while leaving you room to deny that that was what you meant. Both are cowardly. And usually done but the same people. As far as direct communication if I disagree with you and the subject is important I will point out my disagreement politely. If the subject is unimportant such as someone not liking a vacation destination that I like or an actor I like I let it go with a weak smile. But I never hint. I would rather ignore the issue than be mealymouthed. MN is VERY indirect. I lived there for over a decade and it was crazy to me how many people would be friendly to each and then talk crap about each other behind each other’s backs. I have a personal rule that I don’t talk like that behind people’s backs and I will actively defend people. I make this known when I’m in new social groups and people try to gossip. Have you spoken with them about this?” Have you spoken with XYZ authority about this problem?” I don’t have a problem with that person.” That’s not my experience with that person.” Etc. It really depends on a lot of factors. Generation rural/urban and geographic location South West etc. Its kinda impossible to boil the whole country down to a single answer. It would be like asking the same of the whole of Europe. Dating often people arent direct when trying to say no. I had a guy hug me and say Ill call you later spoiler alert he didnt but I was confused...this was early in my dating Buy ghosting is popular by some for a reason Americans tend to be indirect with strangers... We aim for some level of politeness and respect even if they dont necessarily deserve either. Were much more comfortable being assholes to our friends because the relationship can handle it. I think of Fargo Season 2 which takes place in Minnesota/South Dakota where one character says we’re a friendly people” and the other character says No that’s not it. Pretty unfriendly actually. But it’s the way you’re unfriendly. How you’re so polite about it. Like you’re doin’ me a favor.” It depends on where you are. You mentioned New York/Boston but directness doesnt end there. Im in Ohio about 60 miles south of Cleveland. Were DIRECT here for the most part. That troubles one of my best friends whos from Texas and Kentucky. Scene June 2023 visiting that friend where she lives in Idaho. Id been housemates with her for five years 20132018 and weve been best friends since 1977. When we were sharing a house that friend giggled ALL THE TIME. Constantly. She could say something like Im going to take out the trash and follow it with a GIGGLE. When I was visiting in 2023 though she was no longer doing that. I mentioned it. Youre not doing that giggling thing anymore. She said You know my sister who lives in Texas recently mentioned that. She just wasnt as DIRECT. My friend thinks the giggling was related to nerves and maybe shes right. Maybe I make people nervous? Its was a simple conversation and I dont know how else I could have stated it but apparently I should have been more passiveaggressive about it. THAT is whats going on in the USA A lot of passiveaggression. And a LOT of white lies and a lot of darker lies too but thats another discussion. You will notice it in the Southern states more than just about anywhere else in the country. JUST SAY WHAT YOU MEAN people. If nothing else its a time saver and will cause a lot less confusion. talking about money. or sex. I call it the booger theory. In NY if I have a booger hanging out and run into a friend. They will tell me. On the west coast they won’t tell me even if I’m walking in to talk to my manager. If I notice it after they will say they saw it but didn’t want to embarrass me. As if talking to the boss with it isn’t worse. I teach my kids generally if it can be fixed in 5 seconds or less then say something. But if not you are just being mean. I’m Southern and I work with people all over the world every day. I have learned to code switch at the drop of a pin. Direct for US East Coast ironic for the Brits friendly for the Italians. It’s called Emotional Intelligence and it’s necessary to do business successfully. We should get together sometime! Yes lets get coffee! These two people will never meet again outside the line at the grocery store. I think I read this on BBC news but I honestly cant remember but the story was about how in the UK older people in the hospital would use some kind of euphemism for using the toilet with foreign born nurses. The nurses would have no idea what they were talking about and just leave so I assume the poor old people would pee themselves. I have no idea how direct or indirect Americans are but if we had to pee wed get the point across. In other situations I cant make any guarantees but when it comes to the basics were direct. When it comes to dealing with people in authority were probably less direct especially if you see in real time your boss doing something stupid. Post 61 Lunch or supper? Supper or dinner? Do you or have you heard of anyone calling lunch the afternoon meal supper”? Do you call the evening meal dinner or supper? Asking because my grandma who is 80 something &amp grew up in Texas calls lunch supper” and the evening meal dinner” so I’m wondering if this is thing for anyone else in the US. To me dinner and supper are synonymous for the evening meal though I would never use supper. Lunch is the midday meal. Found myself really confused in rural Nova Scotia once where apparently dinner is the midday meal. In lots of places the midday meal was once called dinner. Youll see it a lot in old books. My grandparents call a lunchbox a dinner pail I say supper for the evening meal. This is somewhat common in the South still but some people see it as old fashioned. Ive never til now heard of anyone using supper for a midday meal. Thats atypical. Dinner generally means the main meal so its the biggest meal of the day. In the modern US thats the evening meal. Historically this was often the midday meal. My grandparents usually called the midday meal dinner and not lunch. Supper is generally a lighter/smaller evening meal. Lunch meant a lighter/smaller midday meal. I don’t know anybody under the age of 80 that uses supper. Appalachian here. I don’t say supper but I’ve only ever heard it used as a synonym for dinner the evening meal Dinner and supper mean the same thing the evening meal. Dinner implies more formality in certain contexts but they both refer to the same meal. I use both interchangeably. I use supper and dinner interchangeably. I’m more likely to use supper at home I always ‘go out for dinner’ never supper. In California we always used supper and dinner interchangeably for the evening meal. We always called midday meal lunch. Lunch is the midday meal. Dinner is the evening meal. But I have heard people refer to the evening meal as supper. I grew up in GA In boston this was used well into the 90s. I still use it. New England here lunch is lunch and suppah is the evening meal Sunday afternoon lunch was dinner”. Not really so much anymore. My grandparents were from Maine and called the evening meal supper. My mom still occasionally does but mostly its dinner now. We are in CT. As a child dinner was lunch and supper was dinner until I entered school and the teacher corrected” me. Lunch is lunch. I use dinner and supper interchangeably. I grew up in New England where both my parents call the evening meal supper. I call it dinner and have an odd irrational hatred of the word supper. Supper is the last meal of the day. Dinner is the largest meal of the day regardless of what time it is served. My mother used to call the midday meal supper but as kids that confused us so I think she stopped doing that. My mother is 87. To me supper is the same as dinner which is the evening meal. Growing up my older relatives called lunch dinner and dinner supper. I use lunch and dinner. Its an old southern thing but the way it was explained to me was supper was more like brunch but on the other side. It was after church so it was a late lunch closer to 23 pm rather than 121. Was already heavily leaving the lexicon when I was a child in the 90s. I wouldnt expect many people under 80 to use ot that way. My Minnesota grandparents called it supper. When wed go up there wed sometimes go to the local supper club which served a big hearty traditional Midwestern meal meat potatoes etc. I dont know if it was once a private club but when we were there it was open to the public. The term supper club referred to that kind of meal. Most tables were like us people taking grandparents to dinner I have to wonder how many of these places are left. My grandparents would use supper to refer to what Id call dinner. This would sometimes but not always be accompanied by calling lunch dinner. Ive never heard supper used to refer to lunch. This is all in Georgia. Grew up in the midwest in the 80s. My grandmother would use dinner” for the midday meal and supper” for the evening meal but it was an old person thing and even to my little kid ears it sounded wrong and created some confusion. Not that my grandma was that old in the 80’s. . .she’d have been in her fifties but that was old to me at the time. Everybody else called the midday meal lunch” and the evening meal could be called dinner” or supper” interchangably. Grew up in the Midwest. Not 80 but I can see the light. I use supper and dinner interchangeably for the evening meal but I think I use dinner more. In NY we use lunch and dinner Breakfast is always breakfast. Lunch is always a middday meal. Supper is always an evening meal. Dinner is the largest meal of the day regardless of when it is served. In modern US society for the last 50+ years 99% of the time the largest meal of the day is the evening meal so we have come to think of dinner and supper as interchangeable. But I bet you call Thanksgiving dinner” even if you are eating it at 1pm. Same with Christmas. And Easter. The use of dinner for a large midday meal is regional only as far is it was typically used by more rural/farming or ranching families. The calories from a large meal were needed to do demanding physical labor for 12 hours a day. Supper at night was leftovers from the midday meal and a lot of the time were cold. Meat and cheese sliced up into sandwiches with a glass of milk kind of meals. This must be a regional thing. Im on the West coast and have never heard anyone use supper. I obviously know that people do use that word elsewhere although I always thought it meant dinner. Lunch is the midday meal and dinner is the evening meal. Even my grandparents never used the word supper. Breakfast lunch dinner. That’s the only way myself or my family and anyone I’ve spoken to in my area has ever said them. And I generally only eat one and a half of those meals a day lol. To me supper” was always thought of as a sort of southern redneck word for dinner. My grandparents did breakfast lunch supper. Basically everyone else does breakfast lunch dinner. I live in Southern Illinois and it’s supper I haven’t heard the word supper since childhood… at some other kid’s grandma’s house. Possibly my childhood babysitter too who was over 60. I’m 38. Also supper would’ve been dinner as in the last meal at least in my circles/where I am from Ive heard that a big lunch can be called a dinner. Never supper. Dinner is the biggest meal of the day and can be had at midday or in the evening. If dinner is in the evening lunch is a noon meal. If dinner is at midday supper is an evening meal. If you’re just having small meals you might do lunch and supper with no dinner. Breakfast remains breakfast no matter what. I use lunch for the noon meal and dinner for the evening meal. However my family still uses supper. Maybe its a regional thing theyre all from the Appalachian region. Grew up with lunch and supper but now dinner. When I moved to Florida people treated you like a complete hick if you say supper Growing up on a Midwest farm we had dinner at noon lunch was around 4 p.m. and supper was the evening meal. Now I’m in the suburbs and lunch is at noon and dinner is evening meal. Growing up in Michigan supper was the evening meal and interchangeable with dinner—unless it was the meal right after church. Then it was dinner. Lunch is always a midday meal unless you work retail where your meal break is called lunch no matter what time it is. Also to my UK friends I have no idea when tea is and whether its supposed to just be a snack a lunch a dinner a supper. Does another meal follow tea at some point? My grandparents did the reverse calling lunch dinner and dinner supper. Supper was used by my grandparents and some of my aunts and uncles still My understanding was always supper was casual while dinner was planned and used the good China. I dont use supper anymore its lunch and dinner. In the south sometimes people still call it Dinner and supper instead of lunch and dinner. Regional differences are still around for the older generations. https//www.merriamwebster.com/wordplay/dinnervssupperdifferencehistorymeaning Also this song just for fun... https//youtu.be/bRvEHn6fKWE?si=sCHv6am5ekkoe5hS I use lunch and supper. Dinner to me is a big meal and a big meal could be either at lunch or supper so I usually avoid using the word dinner to avoid confusion about which meal it is. Lunch is midday supper is in the evening. Eat lunch at 11am eat dinner at 4pm For me its always been dinner if youre going out supper if youre staying in. I grew up with supper as the evening meal. My father was from New England. Lunch is lunch and occurs midday Dinner is dinner or supper and occurs in the evening. We like to call special meals that combine lunch and dinner into one meal linner”. That’s usually around 3pm growing up my parents called the evening meal supper. I mostly say lunch and dinner. The midday meal is lunch. Except on Sunday if its a big meal then its dinner. Evening meal can be called dinner or supper. Except in my house its tea because Im married to a foreigner and adopted his terminology for clarity. I only use lunch and dinner but if I heard supper I would assume they meant dinner. My exhusband’s family called the midday meal commonly lunch dinner and the evening meal commonly dinner supper. They were the only people I’ve ever met who did this and I’ve only ever encountered using the terms this way in the *Little House on the Prairie* books. His family were middle class white collar people from Wisconsin. My midwestern family call lunch dinner and the last meal of the day is supper. I grew up in the south east breakfast lunch dinner. This is a massive north/south working/ middle divide in England some have Breakfast Dinner Tea supper being a light snack before bed Some have breakfastLunchDinner and a rare few have Supper as their evening meal Bostonian here its supper unless its a formal meal then it is a dinner. https//www.reddit.com/r/MapPorn/comments/6mn32o/uses_of_the_words_dinner_and_supper_in_the_united/?utm_source=share&amputm_medium=mweb3x&amputm_name=mweb3xcss&amputm_term=1&amputm_content=share_button I grew up in Southern California and it was always lunch” and dinner.” I occasionally encountered other Southern Californians who would call the evening meal supper” but it was invariably a sign that they were transplants from another state. Supper means dinner where Im at but I say lunch and dinner. I have never heard lunch called supper. Lunch might be called dinner if it is a big meal like Thanksgiving dinner. When I was growing up I heard supper and dinner both referring to the evening meal. I use the word dinner. I am strictly in the lunch/dinner crowd although people in my family will occasionally use supper as a synonym for dinner. The midday meal is lunch. For the evening meal dinner and supper are used kind of interchangeably. Lunch was always lunch to me. My grandmother has always called dinner supper. We are from New England. Supper is an uncommon synonym for dinner here in Ohio. I can’t speak for the entire U.S. We do have a special occasion” meal called brunch. Dinner can happen at any time. Lunch is midday. Supper is evening. I’ve never used the word supper. Neither has anyone I know. Lunch and dinner Yes an 80 year old is the demographic to use the term supper. Although not even all of themmy dad is 81 and calls it lunch and dinner Breakfast lunch dinner. I don’t hear anyone here using supper. I associate it with elderly folks or people from a different region of the country. ETA my first instinct is to think supper means dinner” but I’ve heard it used the way you described before. I feel like supper is a dying word. To me supper has always been a synonym to dinner but I am familiar with the fact that others use it to mean either lunch or the largest meal of the day. Lunch. Dinner. Dinner and supper can both be used for the evening meal but if main meal is at lunch time it’s called dinner. As in Thanksgiving Dinner is at 3. A light supper or big dinner is how we use it. I think its very regional. When I was a kid we had a nanny for my little brother. She was from rural Pennsylvania. She kept saying supper and I was thinking Why on earth would you feed him so early? I figured it out later when she said He didnt eat everything for supper so tell his mother he can finish it at dinner. I had a funny conversation with her about it and in her mind *she had never heard anybody call it different.* Ive never heard someone since call it that regularly. But I do have a friend whos rural PA relatives also call it supper. Sometimes hell slip but a lot of that influence is gone. Lunch is in the middle of the day while Supper is a casual meal at night. Dinner is a more formal meal could be at night or weekend afternoon where food is secondary to the company. We say lunch and dinner but when I’m dog sitting for my neighbors the dogs get supper”. 🤷‍♀️ Midwest here. We call it breakfastlunch and dinner. Yep my family uses them all. For us lunch is the noon meal and dinner is a late afternoon meal. When we eat a single afternoon meal skipping lunch we call it supper. Ive never heard of supper being used for the midday meal. Morning meal is breakfast . Midday is lunch. Evening is supper. The largest/ primary meal of the day is dinner. 99% of the time supper and dinner are interchangeable but there are occasions when midday is dinner. Thanksgiving depending on peoples plans is the most likely for a midday dinner. Other times it might be someone from out of town has to leave before supper and thus people meet up and have dinner midday. Never heard the midday meal called anything but lunch. Evening mall called dinner roughly 99% of the time with 1% outliers calling it supper mostly older people. For me theres not a distinction in formality between dinner and supper just that supper is older sounding. This is my experience across NY CA and CO. Dinner and supper meant the same in my family growing up in the 70s / 80s. Last meal of the day. For my grandparents who came from Sweden there was a distinction but I dont really remember what it was. Probably something to do with a less formal meal around 500 at home. I still hear supper used here in the Midwest I probably say it myself but dinner is certainly more prevalent. I grew up in Minneapolis saying breakfast lunch and supper. In the ‘90s I switched to saying dinner when I moved to east coast. My 80+ year old mom still says supper. lol Could be regional or could be generational. my dad calls it supper. hes in his 60s. Only my grandparents and all but one has passed away at this point. Not in the north but Ive heard southerners say supper Lunch and dinner Supper and dinner are the same thing. Just depends on where you live As a child there was no lunch. The midday meal was dinner and the evening meal was supper. Breakfast Dinner Supper. Heres me thinking supper was dinner. I just use lunch and dinner though. Lunch is a midday meal. Dinner is an evening/nighttime meal. Here in the south you’ll hear supper” used by very rural or older people. For some reason I HATE the word supper and think it sounds trashy. I really don’t know why. I say breakfast or brekky for fun brunch lunch dinner I grew up in Alabama. Our evening meal was supper. Confusingly my grandmother from Mississippi called lunch Dinner. Now I call the evening meal dinner unless I’m telling my kids that it’s supper time”. My grandparents who were born in the 1920s did this. My parents born in the 50s use the terms interchangeably to mean dinner evening meal I always thought dinner was lunchtime and supper was evening. Not that we use it and I think the last one who used it was my grandmother. Ive never heard anyone use supper for the midday meal. The way I use them and it seems like most other people do too is Lunch Midday meal Supper Evening meal Dinner Whatever the main largest meal of the day is As a kid in the 80s rural wisconsin Lunch is the meal around noon. Most people are at school or work at this time and those places all refer to it as lunch. Dinner/supper was the evening meal. My family used supper more often. And you know there is a whole industry of restaurants referred to as supper clubs......many only open in the evening. Never heard it that way. My Momma is from Georgia and calls the midday meal dinner and the evening meal supper. Although that’s only if the midday is a sit down family type thing. Otherwise it’s lunch and dinner Growing up in the South the midday meal was dinner and the evening meal was supper. I am GenX for reference. My mother in law calls the noon meal dinner and the evening meal supper. She’s like 86. My kids use lunch dinner and supper nearly interchangeably because of her. It was common to have Breakfast — Supper — Dinner in parts of the country. For me it has always been Breakfast — Lunch — Dinner. But since I only eat 2 meals a day it’s Lunch — Dinner except by skipping breakfast that makes lunch the breakfast because it’s the meal that breaks the fast. Im in the northeast. My grandparents ALWAYS called the midday meal dinner and the evening meal supper. We younger generations just call the midday meal lunch but dinner and supper are interchangeable for the evening meal although we say supper most of the time. I will usually call the noon meal lunch but grew up calling it dinner. The evening meal is supper. Word origins supper is originally the last big meal of the day. It is usually applied to when dinner is taken in the middle of the day the next meal would be supper or a late meal following an early evening dinner. It’s usually less formal than dinner Louisiana My 88 year old dad calls lunch supper. My poppop would call dinner supper. I was an exchange student in California in 1969/1970. My host family called the meal after the Sunday morning service supper. Dad passed away in 2017. He was 88 years old. Minnesota here. I have never in my life heard lunch called supper. Thats wild. Supper can only refer to the evening meal. Dinner usually refers to the evening meal but *can refer to lunch. The way it has been explained to me is that dinner refers to the fanciest meal of the day. Usually that is supper but sometimes as in Sunday dinner it is lunch. I’ve always said dinner You’ll find some people referring to lunch as dinner in mostly rural areas where historically lunch was the main meal of the day for farmers and then supper for the evening meal. Nowadays dinner and supper are pretty much synonyms of the evening meal. My Grandma she’ll turn 93 this month and is from Texas/Oklahoma area…calls the midday meal supper. The evening meal is dinner. I grew up with supper and dinner being synonymous but knew that wasnt the case everywhere. I did call a potential client a few months back. He was upset that I had interrupted his supper. It was 4 in the afternoon. In Kansas. I dont know what to make of that. I have heard of people use BLD and BDS but I have never heard of BSD. And in French Switzerland compared to France they use the equivalent of LDS. Ive heard the afternoon meal called dinner &amp the evening meal called supper. Havent heard it often but it was always older folks who used that parlance. Lunch is a midday meal. It is not the main meal of the day. Dinner is a midday meal and is your main meal of the day. Supper is your evening meal. So we would have Sunday dinner and all of our holiday meals for Easter Thanksgiving Christmas would also be early afternoon meals. Usually around 12PM. Its how we always referred to it growing up. Id say generic American culture mostly uses lunch for midday and dinner for evening. I dont know anyone who uses supper. The three meals of the day are breakfast lunch and dinner. I thought supper was another word for dinner. I would have never thought to use it to mean lunch. It’s largely a matter of region and age. I say lunch and dinner. NYC. 64 I called lunch lunch and then I called dinner dinner. My dad will sometimes call dinner supper. My mom says dinner. The way I learned it in west Texas Lunch is Dinner The biggest meal Dinner is Supper. Breakfast Dinner Supper. In my area Lunch is lunch. Dinner and supper are used interchangeably though dinner is the more commonly used term. Same meal though. Lunch and dinner. Grew up in CT live in MA. I have a friend from a ruralish part of Pennsylvania who calls the evening meal supper. My grandma was also from Texas but I honestly cant remember what word she used probably dinner because thats what my dad said. She definitely called lunch lunch and I dont think Ive ever heard anyone call it supper. Lunch is the afternoon meal? I just thought lunch was the primary meal between breakfast and dinner. Or the second meal of the day if youre having 3. I havent seriously heard it referred to as supper since the 1990s. Yeah my grandparents and old people I know call lunch supper and the evening meal is dinner Post 62 Is there any reason why some US Sports team sometimes represent a whole state by name of others just by a city? This one confuses me in the UK you have all the teams in any sport representing a city/town but never a county which makes it all the more confusing for me to see you have teams in the same league who represent an entire state and some who represent a city it gets even more confusing for me when youve got a State team that also has a City team in the same state within the same league I.e. Florida Panthers &amp Tampa Bay Lightning I can understand representing a whole state if theres no other teams in the state for that sport but when youve got teams with Cities in their names in the same sport it just doesnt make sense to me Is it purely a business thing where it would be more profitable to call it by State name? In large part it depends on the history of the franchise and the market theyre trying to appeal to The Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim was very confusing. They were once called the California Angels. Sometimes like Minnesota there are multiple cities in the state Minneapolis and Saint Paul the teams want to equally represent. This is most common. For the Panthers and Lightning and Rangers and Astros there was a team with a city name first with a big fanbase and the second team in the state rest of the state wanted to siphon off some of that support from the rest of the state. Plus the Rangers wanted to represent the whole Metroplex without a clunky name. Just a minor point in the UK at higher levels of cricket it is played by county teams so your premise isnt entirely correct. The two football teams from Nottingham are named Notts County and Nottingham Forest. The Panthers are based in Sunrise Florida. No one would cheer for the Sunrise FlipFlops. I’d say they’re more or less just names. It’s just business and makes no sense so don’t worry about it. The structure is also very different teams aren’t moving up and down between levels like they are in the UK. You’ll see plenty of minor league teams in the US that are named for the city they’re in but they stay at that level. Players will move up and down but a minor league teams isn’t gonna go up to the majors like a Championship League team going to the Premier League. ‘in the UK you have all the teams in any sport representing a city/town but never a county’ As someone also from the UK this isn’t true. Our cricket teams represent counties. There is usually a story behind it. Keep in mind that US sports is focused on either universites or large cities. There is not much of a culture for every town to have a local team that everyone gathers to see. They just watch the high school play American football instead. So it is not unusual for everyone in a state to cheer for a team even if it is hours away. Here are 2 examples I am aware of. All Minnesota teams Minneapolis and St. Paul have a rivalry of sorts. They are two relatively large cities close to one another. If left to their own devices they would certainly have clubs on both sides of the river playing intense derbies regularly. However since US sports has a top down approach the leagues dont want 2 teams in such a relatively small market by American standards anyway. So the teams represent Minnesota so they dont take sides on the Minneapolis and St. Paul debate. Tennessee Titans This one is actually kind of neat and very American in all the worst ways. The team was originally the Houston Oilers but Houston wouldnt build the owner a new stadium so he went looking for a place that would build him his fancy stadium that would literally go obsolete in 20 years. Nashville gave him that offer so he decided to move the Oilers to Nashville in particular. This unsurprisingly caused Houston to turn on the team to the point where they couldnt stay in Houston any longer. There was a problem though. Nashvilles stadium wouldnt be ready for another 2 years and the city had no other stadium worthy of an NFL franchise. So the Titans actually ended up playing their games 200 miles/340 km away in Memphis TN for 2 years. They had a stadium that was big enough. Part of the deal was that the franchise would be the team for Tennessee and not just Nashville so they adopted the name Tennessee Oilers. This didnt work. Memphis didnt like being a placeholder especially since they were trying to get an NFL team of their own. No one attended the games in Memphis either. However the name was never changed back. And heck the marketing works. I am a Titans fan because of it. If it were the Nashville Titans I might have abandoned them by now. As a Patriots fan I wonder what you think about our geographic label? Anyone here want to take a stab at explaining the Patriots? It’s all marketing and what fan base the team is trying to appeal to. There’s a few good examples like the American football New York Giants or New York Jets which play in New Jersey a completely different state. Or like like the baseball team which changed their name to the Los Angeles Angels despite being located in the different city of Anaheim the already existing Los Angeles Dodgers which are actually located in Los Angeles heavily contested the Angels’ name change. Another baseball team the Florida Marlins changed their name to the Miami Marlins to appeal to the city that they’re in rather than the state. There’s many other examples but it all comes down to marketing and nothing else. On top of wanting to represent a larger amount of people sometimes theyre being named after something that already exists. Texas Rangers was the name of a law enforcement agency Colorado Rockies is the part of the Rockies mountain chain in Colorado and a Florida Panther refers to the population of North American cougars that live in Florida Ahem ... all the English/Welsh cricket teams are county based. Yorkshire County Cricket Club Lancashire County Cricket Club. Some not many football teams too. Derby County Stockport County Notts County etc Charlotte straddles the border between NC &amp SC. It’s technically in NC but the suburbs are in both and lots of people that work in charlotte live in SC. So calling them the Charlotte panthers would basically alienate half their fan base. Because lots of so called cities are just conglomerates of multiple areas of Sprawl that happen to touch or exist near each other or the teams as mentioned don’t play in what is the largest and best known city in area so for simplicity sake they regionalized The Florida Panthers hockey team are named after a specific sub species of Cougars know as Florida Panthers. So that explains why that example. Er... You may want to check out cricket in the UK?? Cricket is totally defined by counties in England despite often being based in a single city so it isnt that alien a concept. Derby County is a football team. Rugby has the Cornish Pirates and various regional setups. Depends who founded them and who they appeal to I guess. but never a county Derby County in the Chanpionship would disagree with you It’s simpler than that. Look at the Florida Panthers logo. It shows an endangered wild animal officially known as Florida panther. It is also known as North American cougar very different from middleage women who hunt young men to sleep with them. A little tangent Denver is getting a professional womens soccer team with a stadium. The city is doing a ton of infrastructure improvements to support the stadium but not funding the stadium itself. When council was voting on spending that money one of the councilmembers effectively said If we are spending $70 Million on supporting this franchise Denver better be in the fucking name. It is a lot of things business decision the history of the franchise as u/BroCanWeGetLROTNOG stated the sport in question and a factor of size. Compared to football soccer in the UK our sports leagues are tiny. There are 32 NFL and NHL teams 30 NBA teams and 30 MLB teams but that is a slightly different situation scattered across the US and Canada. Where as in UK football there are in a single sport over 40000 clubs. the top tier leagues Champions and EFL have *92.* Its fairly easy to have a truly local team if there are 40k teams. London alone has ***17*** teams. Now imagine scattering 32 sports teams across the 2nd and 3rd largest countries in the world. Youd want to be sure the teams can gather enough support to fill stadiums/ arenas and generate revenue. Do you place them all in cities or do some get an region? NYC with a population of over 6 mil can do that with two teams. But Sunrise Florida with a population of less than 100k cant. But give that team a statewide base and even excluding Miami and Tampa Bay a region not a city they are able to build and hold a fanbase. Some sports need a regional following to hold the fanbase where another sport based in the same city can use the citys name and hold the same or similar base. *Colorado* for NHL and MLB and *Denver* for NBA and NFL. All of that said there are only 6 NHL 6NFL 4 NBA and 5 MLB teams not named for a city. Of the Big 4 of US sports 21 of 126 teams not named for a single city is the exception not the rule In a lot of cases the team plays out of a city that no one knows of. Few people know what state Sunrise is in so the Sunrise Panthers doesnt make sense to use. In that case they have two choices use the state or the general metro area. Some teams – like the Detroit Pistons and Lions who played in Auburn Hills and Pontiac for decades or the New York Jets and Giants who play in East Rutherford New Jersey – go with the metro name. Others go with the state. In other cases its mandated as part of the lease agreement. For example the Phoenix Coyotes switched to the Arizona Coyotes because the city of Glendale Arizona demanded they drop Phoenix from the name as part of a lease renewal. Also your teams represent pretty small areas. Our states are the size of your entire country. We have 50 states and most leagues have &lt=32 teams. Imagine if Liverpool was the only team in the entire country playing a game in Italy Liverpool Milan is about the same distance as New York Chicago less than half way across the country – its reasonable to think the team might want to go by England to represent the entire country better. Whenever the team was created the owner just thought they’d get more initial support/fans by naming it after the state. It’s really that simple. With the New Jersey Devils the Jersey Devil is a state legend. The East Rutherford Devils or Newark Devils mean nothing to this state but pretty much everyone knows the legend of the Jersey Devil. It’s usually based upon how big the market / audience for that particular sport was at the time that the teams were originally established. So the famous rivalry of the baseball teams of the New York Yankees est. 1903 and Brooklyn Dodgers est. 1890 got started because both of them were based out of different boroughs of New York City which was a massive metroplex even at the turn of the century. Meanwhile the Minnesota Twins est. 1901 are representing an entire state whose population was significantly less than that of NYC. Teams also tend to attract a fanbase from a much wider geographic area than their name might suggest. For example the Seattle Mariners baseball team is sort of the hometown team” for the entire Pacific Northwest Washington Oregon Idaho Alaska even some folk from western Montana and Wyoming that don’t like the Colorado Rockies simply because there isn’t another MLB team in the region. The closest being the Athletics out of Sacramento and no selfrespecting Pacific Northwesterner is going to cheer for a team from California if they can help it. In the UK sports is organized by clubs. So a club names itself by the city it is in before it becomes a major premier team. Chelsea were Chelsea and never west London United”. In the US pro sports are organized by the leagues granting franchises. So your new team is guaranteed to be a national level team. With that information you can decide whether calling yourselves Denver or Colorado is likely to attract more fans. It used to be that all the teams in Major League Baseball the NFL the AFL the NBA and the NHL were named after their cities. That changed in 1961 when the Washington Senators of baseball moved to Minnesota as the Minnesota Twins *and* the Minnesota Vikings of football were formed. Minnesota has two cities Minneapolis and St. Paul the Twin Cities” of roughly equal stature and neither team wanted to be seen as the team of just one city or the other. The Minnesota Twins even adopted a logo with the letters TC to avoid the perception that an M logo stood for Minneapolis. Furthermore the suburbs were expanding all over America in 1961 and the Twins and Vikings were among the first teams to play home games in the suburbs. Adopting the full state in their names made sense given their distance from the two urban centers. Nobody would have taken the Bloomington Vikings” seriously. A few years later the Los Angeles Angels also moved out of central LA and became the California Angels. For a while they became the Anaheim Angels largely because their owners the Disney corporation wanted to promote Anaheim as a tourist spot. Now they’re the Los Angeles Angels again despite still being in Anaheim. Likewise later on when the Boston Patriots moved to Foxborough and became the New England Patriots. The Texas Rangers were among the next to be named after a state. Similar to the Twins they played in the suburbs in between two rival cities. Also the Texas Rangers” were the name of a popular law enforcement agency in Texas. More recently it feels like a trend to name after states. That makes sense. If you’re trying to capture a TV audience you want people far and wide to identify with your team. Unlike the early 20th century when most revenue came from live ticket sales and targeted marketing to a home town was more appropriate. Depends. Ive always lived in rural states so most towns dont have enough population to really justify a team of their own. The school I went to for elementary had 23 kids in the entire school from K8. My graduating class in high school was less than 500 kids. We had a basketball team the one I played on but it was moreso just for funsies than anything else. It wasnt until I got into track in my states capital that I saw teams comprised of actual skilled athletes and not just kids docking around for fun. Larger states might have multiple sports teams but they still choose one to represent. Sometimes a city/town team represents the entire state i.e. the Denver Broncos or Chicago Bulls. Just wait til you hear about the New England Patriots! I think a lot of it has to do with marketing. A guy living in Vermont might not feel connected to the Boston Patriots but call them New England and suddenly they represent him because he lives there! I think a bit of it comes down to television as it seems based on a cursory glance of league timelines to be more of a thing to do statebased naming as televised sports became bigger starting around the 70s80s and continuing on basically until the overall slow decline of TV generally in the streaming era and thus broadcasting rights likely became a larger proportion of the revenue stream for the team during that period and a broader geographic base could make the broadcasting rights more lucrative. Its not a perfect predictor so Im sure its not the only factor but it does seem like its likely part of it. Some even represent multiple states like in New England states like Maine New Hampshire and Vermont arent big enough in population to sustain a major sports team by themselves really probably other reasons but thats the one that seems most obvious for this case Sometimes its a case of a team existing and then another being added later. Sometimes its a case of it just sounding better Texas Rangers a Texas Ranger is a famous historic figure Colorado Rockies Mountain chain the state is known for like the song Colorado Rocky Mountain High Florida Panthers thats an actual animal And finally sometimes its just a team trying to grab more market share/appeal. E.g. California Angels/Los Angeles Angels/Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim/Anaheim Angels. One note about the Florida Panthers that Im not sure if anyone mentioned because Im too lazy to read through all of the replies. When the franchise began they were the only NHL team in Florida so they probably tried to leverage the name to draw support from the entire state. The Tampa Bay Lightning came along later but the Panthers kept their original name. Beyond what others have said there can also be strong regional solidarity that the teams want to tie in especially for newer teams. Someone mentioned the Titans but the Carolina Panthers and Hurricanes are named such because they’re newer and there’s no strong existing professional team in the area and the region has relatively strong cultural solidarity. It’s marketing. They chose the state because they want to market to a region rather than a metro. You’re confusing aesthetic with profit At the end of the day its a marketing decision. Some teams think they can draw a larger fanbase by claiming a whole state others prefer to draw on the image of whatever city theyre based in. Its really just the name. Sometimes it just sounds better. For instance which sounds betterthe Minnesota Vikings or the Minneapolis Vikings? The Wisconsin Packers or the Green Bay Packers? But then in the UK you also have things like the Scottish national rugby team and Scottish national football team. Possibly other examples. Its a very similar concept. You mention counties in your post like they are similar. States in the US are similar to the UK having England Wales Scotland and Northern Ireland. We dont have any teams that would represent a whole county either. Their name either reflects the city or the state theyre from. Giving some local examples with which I have intimate familiarity the Boston Red Sox Boston Bruins and Boston Celtics all play at venues within the city of Boston proper Fenway Park and the new Boston Garden respectively. Our pro football team the New England Patriots used to be called the Boston Patriots from 19601970 when they played at a variety of temporary venues throughout the city including at Boston College’s and Harvard’s stadia just over the border in Chestnut Hill and Cambridge respectively. When they moved to a new stadium in 1970 located way out in the sticks at the time in Foxboro about halfway between Boston and Providence they changed the name to the New England Patriots. Perhaps they changed the name to better appeal to the Rhode Island fans they were moving closer to. Perhaps they were compelled to do it out of a deeply ingrained sense of puritan honesty about where their games were actually played — a conviction which our friends at the New Jersey Giants and New Jersey Jets obviously don’t share. Not sure why you find this confusing. They are just named whatever the owners want to call them. States or cities with high enough populations will be able to support multiple teams. Population is really more important than anything else. That’s why metro New York will be able to support multiple teams in the same league but a state like Wyoming probably can’t support even one team. I dont know anything about sports but I do know about animals. A Florida panther is the name of an animal like the Canadian goose or the Komodo dragon. Its another name for a mountain lion. Mountain lions have many many names puma cougar panther etc. They live from Canada to the tip of South America so many different people have named them. Theyre called a Florida panther in the Everglades region. Marketing reasons. In the last few years the NHL team relocated from Arizona to Utah. And when it initially happening the state senate as part of the approval requested the name be Utah and not Salt Lake. Even though Salt Lake would be footing the largest part of the public bill via taxes. I know some might say it is appealing to the whole state but thats stupid because of it were the Salt Lake Mammoths the whole state would still support them its not like Southern Utah has a team to cheer for instead. Its branding and marketing usually based on where the fan base is. Otherwise wed be calling them NY football teams the New Jersey Giants and New Jersey Jets Marketing. End of reasons Short answer its because the owners think it will be more marketable and/or it sounds better. New England Patriots represents 6 states. They do what works. In some cases its to try to expand the teams market. Saying you represent the entire state instead of just one city expands your reach. Here in the Raleigh Durham region you see plenty of fans of the Carolina Panthers football team but far fewer of the Charlotte Hornets despite both teams being in Charlotte. In other cases it works better with the team name. The Florida panther is an actual animal as is the Carolina panther though its officially extinct. Teams don’t represent geographical areas in the U.S. past the high school level. At the professional sports level our teams move around at the whims of the teams owner often to the dismay of fans. The players are from across the country or world. If you went into the locker room here is no sense of identity with the city or region. If you go into the Boston Red Sox’s locker rooms you won’t find players have a Boston accent or are from New England. They don’t think of themselves as representing Boston. They think of themselves as professional baseball players that are currently employed by the Red Sox. Some of the fans that are less intelligent may think the team represents the city but the players don’t. The fans are just there for their money. You even have regions like the New England Patriots New England is a name for a region of 6 states. It’s usually a specific reason often lost to history as to why. But there is no specific overarching reason each case has its own particular reasons Look up the naming history of the team currently known as the Los Angeles Angels. The answer to your question is no. Typically it’s done to either nominally expand the fan base across a state or when there are multiple cities of size in a metro area who could be the named city. All the teams in Minnesota play in the MinneapolisSt. Paul twin cities.” Rather than pick one or the other they use Minnesota… the Minnesota Twins for twin cities in baseball Vikings in football Timberwolves in basketball Wild in hockey. Golden State Warriors use that rather than choose San Francisco San Jose Oakland since they represent the whole Bay Area. Texas Rangers rather than pick Dallas Ft. Worth or Arlington as named city since Dallas is the biggest/main city but they play in Arlington. Florida Panthers because they represent Miami but also Ft. Lauderdale Palm Beach etc. that are kind of their own metro areas. Marlins started as Florida Marlins but have rebranded as Miami as Tampa got a team. Panthers however chose Florida even with a team already in Tampa. Coincidentally teams in that area use Tampa Bay to lump Tampa St. Petersburg together since both are large cities in that region. Tennesee Titans to expand fan base across state to Memphis too and not just Nashville. The team played in Memphis while stadium was being constructed. The source of funding for their stadium can influence the name. If state money is used then the team is more likely named for the state. Theres no hard and fast rules about this. It depends on what the franchise owners/founder decide to do and that depends on the market theyre in. I live in the MinneapolisSt Paul area. All our professional sports teams are located in either Minneapolis or St Paul but they all represent Minnesota. Partly this is because there really is only one metro area in the state that can sustain a professional franchise so it makes sense to just be a state team. But thats not a rule. In Wisconsin all their teams are citybased two in Milwaukee and one in Green Bay. In our case another factor is that Minneapolis and St. Paul are literally across the river from each other and jointly form the core of the same metro area using one city name or the other could create needless hard feelings. In the case of our baseball team the Minnesota Twins the name is literally a reference to the cities shared nickname the Twin Cities so it would make no sense to use only one citys name. That said it hasnt always been this way. Before the LA Lakers were in LA there were the Minneapolis Lakers which raises another point the unique history of each franchise. Sports franchises were founded in different eras and different leagues and certain of those teams or leagues eventually gain preeminence and those historical franchises dont necessarily change names. We have a minor league baseball team called the St. Paul Saints and if for some reason the Twins and/or MLB were to collapse and the Saints join a new league that becomes the premier baseball league theyd probably keep their same name. There are also places like Kansas City which are on the border between two states. By taking the city name they can represent the region not just the state in their case Missouri not Kansas. Bottom line the franchise owners and the history of the team and culture of the market. Don’t forget the team that represents a multi state region. The New England Patriots. In the uk sports teams are tradition and in America they are abiut money. In the UK a sports Team will almost never move cities but in America it’s common. Older teams like the Dallas cowboys or green bay packers represent a city because that’s how it used to be done. Sometimes they try to market it to two border states to get more support or more money. The Carolina panthers are an example. The stadium where they play flies the north Carolina and South Carolina flags and their home city is right on the border. It’s usually larger cities with city named teams. Green Bay is an exception because it’s a pretty small city compared to others. You nailed it a lot of it is just marketing. Teams use a State name to try to garner more fans. I remember when the Columbus Blue Jackets were being pushed as an expansion team in the NHL the pressure was on the teams owners to name the the Ohio something. Luckily the owners avoided that and we have our Columbus team. It mainly comes down to marketing. Naming yourself for the whole state is an attempt to appeal to more fans outside of the city and potentially broaden the fanbase. The Arizona Cardinals are a great example. They are an old NFL franchise that moved from St. Louis where they weren’t even the only St. Louis Cardinals” because of the much more popular baseball team of the same name to Phoenix. Arizona and initially played there as the Phoenix Cardinals” for years. When they struggled to sell tickets the owner rebranded the franchise as the Arizona Cardinals.” For another example the Carolina Panthers picked that name at launch because they wanted fans in both North Carolina and South Carolina since their home stadium in Charlotte NC is only minutes away from SC. Another point I havent seen yet maybe its further down than I scrolled is that we dont have promotion/relegation in American sports so the teams are generally permanent barring the rare relocation. This allows their naming to be more general than specifically tied to a town or city. Ill go you one better the New England Patriots are named after a *region* not a city or a state. The reason has to do with representation. The Patriots are the only NFL team in Maine Vermont New Hampshire Massachusetts Connecticut and Rhode Island. So they represent all of New England. In cases where teams represent an entire state it is usually because that state only has one major city. In cases where a state has more than one major city there may be multiple teams from the same league. In some cases such as Los Angeles Chargers and Rams football teams and New York City Yankees and Mets baseball teams there may be more than one major sports franchise in the same league in one city. It is worth noting that 24 states have no professional sports teams at all * Alabama * Alaska * Arkansas * Connecticut * Delaware * Hawaii * Idaho * Iowa * Kansas * Kentucky * Maine * Mississippi * Montana * Nebraska * New Hampshire * New Mexico * North Dakota * Rhode Island * South Carolina * South Dakota * Vermont * Virginia * West Virginia * Wyoming They don’t really represent” anything. It’s all just branding and marketing. People are more likely to cheer for their local team whatever that means to them but not always. A lot of states don’t have any professional sports teams. And than you have teams who have nothing to do with state they use for advertising. For example New York Giants and New York Jets. Both teams are based out of New Jersey and play at the same stadium. Post 63 if the US doesnt have any orders whats with the Order of Saint Maurice and the Order of Saint George Medallion? Author PoiboykanakaPost Text So to my knowledge orders like these shouldnt be allowed but these ones are? maybe its just because their military orders? from hawaii what if the royal order of kamehameha was reorganized into a military order? it currently only serves as like fraternity but used to give actual medals sashes and ribbons. only one medal in the US has a sash and thats the medal of freedom EDIT I have been made aware these are not actual official awards by the government. though there is the purple heart Those arent issued or endorsed by the state and dont confer any official privileges. They are just awards issued by private institutions. There’s nothing that says ‘orders’ aren’t allowed that would violate freedom of association. However I believe that people in the US govt can’t accept foreign titles of nobility without approval still can accept awards honors etc The US doesnt have any orders. The Order of St Maurice is and award bestowed by the National Infrantry Association a nonprofit organization to certain subscribers of their Infantry magazine. The Order of St. George is similar its presented by a nonprofit group the United States Cavalry and Armor Association to members of the US Army. Neither is a decoration given by nor recognized by the US government. If monarchs are forbidden in the US why does Burger King give out FREE CROWNS?!?” Are we trying to compare these to say the Order of the Garter in the UK which is given by royalty and bestows a knighthood while the Order of St. George medallion is given by the US Armor Association a non profit group of military members and is an acknowledgement of outstanding service. Orders of nobility are nonexistent because we were never a feudal state I dont think either one of those awards are official awards given by the government. The US government doesn’t have any but private organizations can. Orders are titles of nobility which are not permitted in the United States To be clear youre talking about awards that are given by the US military yes? Because the full title of a purple heart is the Order of the Purple Heart. Or are you just calling it orders that involve Christian references? Having been in the military I cant say Ive even heard of these before so they cant be all that influential or important in general. Internet searches are telling me they are associated with infantry and armor/cavalry units only. Which wouldnt surprise me too much as those branches love their ceremonies pomp and ritualized traditions. I cant speak to how important the orders are to them as I wasnt in those branches but its effectively nonexistent as far as I can tell to everyone else Edit to add they are not official government sanctioned things. Your unit doesnt issue them. Hence why its allowed. Im just not sure how much stock people put into them since they are real awards as far as the government/ units are concerned. Those are privately awarded orders. Private citizens and organizations can award whatever titles and awards they want. The Federal and State governments are prohibited from awarding any form of nobility or peerage. That doesnt mean that private groups cant award the order of the whatever. Also States often award honorary military ranks as a *de facto* replacement for titles or orders. Tennessee and Kentucky Colonels Texas and Nebraska Admirals and Rhode Island Commodores are examples of that. States have the authority to award military commissions in their state militia under the Constitution and as long as they arent part of the National Guard and are purely a state organization the Federal Government doesnt have any say in that matter either. I have been made aware these are not actual official awards by the government. though there is the purple heart The Purple Heart is a military decoration. Though the US does have civilian decorations which does slightly resemble the pomp and ceremony of knightly orders that would be more familiar in Europe it is just a medal and does not come with any special title or official privilege. The constitution bans the federal government from issuing titles of nobility and office holders from accepting titles from foreign kings princes or governments without congressional approval. So the question is whether these are titles of nobility or mere awards. Why wouldnt orders be allowed? Doesnt order just mean private club? We have a constitutional right to peacefully assemble after tall. Military Order of the Purple Heart Military Order of Foreign Wars Military Order of World Wars etc. are all just private clubs…veteran’s organizations that style themselves similarly to chivalric orders. Fraternal orders are allowed but they are not a part of the military. Any awards they give are from the private institution. I was under the impression that orders weren’t explicitly banned only titles that are passed down to family upon death. We have which is somewhat like an order. Receiving a royal order means loyalty to that ruler. I live in a country where there is a king People needs to seek permission if they wish to receive or carry an order from a foreign country. This counts specially for those employed by the government. Why would they not be allowed? Because they are not allowed in the United States. Post 64 How do US midterm elections work? Can a sitting government be toppled from a midterm result? Author JohnnyGlasken This subreddit is for civil discussion political threads are not exempt from this. As a reminder * Do not report comments because they disagree with your point of view. * Do not insult other users. Personal attacks are not permitted. * Do not use hate speech. You will be banned permanently. * Comments made with the intent to push an agenda push misinformation soapbox sealion or argue in bad faith are not acceptable. If you can’t discuss a topic in good faith and in a respectful manner do not comment. **Political disagreement does not constitute pushing an agenda.** If you see any comments that violate the rules **please report it and move on!** *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* According to the constitution presidential elections happen every 4 years house of representatives happens every 2 years and senators are elected every six years not all at the same time about a third are elected each election as they are offset. By necessity that means that there must be an election every 2 years. The elections that take place that are not a presidential election are referred to as MidTerm” elections because they are in the middle of the presidents term. So all of the House of Representatives are reelected and a third of senators are whereas the rest of the senators and the president are not up for election that cycle. To answer the second part of your question the government isn’t toppled but it is quite common for the president’s party no matter which one to lose some ground in the midterms. They often are elected in a wave of support for their party and that subsides as they near the halfway point of their term and people are inevitably unhappy because they cannot meet every one of their usually outlandish and infeasible election promises. This is true across both parties and has been for decades. As a result there is usually a switching of the tides during the midterms. However the government remains it’s still the same government it might just be harder to do things after it. No with an asterisk. Youre thinking of a parliamentary government where the head of state is elected by the legislature. The US is a presidential republic where the head of state is elected by the people\*. The POTUS is in office until their term is up with the exception of impeachment If the House is majority against the POTUS and the senate is 2/3rds against then the President can be impeached and removed from office. In theory this isnt a political tool but in practice if either party got to that level of support then they would almost certainty use it sitting government is a term from Parliamentary systems that doesnt apply to the US system. in the US whoever is elected serves it doesnt matter if anybody can form a majority government. During midterms many members of the legislature are up for election but not the president. all of the House 1/3 of the senate. Usually but not always the presidents party loses seats in midterms which puts pressure on presidents to get things done in their first 2 years. We dont have a parliamentary system with coalitions of parties forming a government.Changing the majority party every 2 or 4 years is by design. Our legislature is designed to require negotiation and compromise with the other party not to form coalitions to make a majority voting block. Members from the House of Representatives only have a 2 year term Senators have a 6 year term. So every 2 years all of the House and 1/3 of the Senate is up for reelection. In America toppling a government means conquered by war. A bunch of comments have gone into the detail behind the presidential vs parliamentary systems. Theyre very informative and I highly recommend reading them over. But to summarize for others who are curious about how our government works Q Cant you guys just get rid of the people in power right away when you dont like them? A No. Our system doesnt allow for that. Only every four years do we vote for President. Sorry thats just the way it is and its not changing. In the U.S. the Chief Executive the president is chosen directly by election every four years. Moreover the president’s official standing is in no way contingent on his party’s standing in Congress. While the president can be removed from office at any time by the process of impeachment and conviction this process has no direct connection with any elections. No president has ever been removed by this process although Richard Nixon would have been had he not resigned instead. Not exactly in the way you might be thinking about it if you live in a country with a parliamentary system. Going to over simplify it here so we don’t need a TLDR but basically Senators get elected every 6 years House members get elected every 2 years President gets elected every 4 years. An mid term” election is one in which the president is NOT on the ballot… but some senators and all house members ARE. The party of the president can lose” the house to an opposing party in a mid term election and that will make it much more difficult for legislation to get passed that favors any single party going to avoid going into vetoes and filibusters here too…. But it’s not impossible. Bills are passed all the time by opposing parties controlling different branches of government. And even if the president’s party loses the house and the legislative power there— executive power is still a huge thing. Also from the legislative side if an opposing party controls the house and senate they can do a lot particularly with the power of the purse to thwart the president’s power. What is called midterm is every four years and is called midterm in reference to the halfway point of a presidential fouryear term. For example 2024 was a presidential election so 2026 will be a midterm election Every two years every seat in the House Of Representatives is up for election/reelection. Senators serve sixyear terms but they are staggered such that 1/3 of the Senate is up for election/reelection every two years So in 2026 the entire House of Representatives and 1/3 of the Senate will be voted on The Judicial branch of the US Government is appointed by the Executive branch but confirmed by the US Senate All three branches Executive Legislative and Judiciary are coequal with each branch having powers responsibilities and authorities against the other two should either exceed their own power and authority Taken all together there is no concept of sitting government in the US federal government however every two years in every midterm election power can shift very radically The midterm election especially the vote for Representatives is often treated as or considered to be a referendum on the performance of the president especially a firstterm president I would add that this only applies to FEDERAL elections. There are also local and state elections going on every year. Midterm elections occur every two years. These elections are for House of Representatives the lower chamber of Congress 1/3 of the Senate the upper chamber of Congress state representatives that comprise state legislatures governors depending on the election schedule of the state and scores of local offices city and county councils school boards commissions etc. On the national level these elections determine which party controls the two chambers of Congress. The result heavily influences the President’s ability to enact his agenda because he needs Congress to get the budget and other policy priorities he wants. A President facing an oppositional Congress will also be subject to more integrative scrutiny that will result in more political headache. Typically the President’s party will lose seats in both chambers with the losses larger in the House. That is most likely what will occur in 2026. American governments do not topple” in the way parliamentary governments do. Our executive and legislative branches are separated meaning changes in partisan majorities in the legislative do not impact who occupies the White House. All the seats in the House of Representatives the lower house and a third of the seats in the Senate the upper house go up for reelection. The president’s party almost always loses support in both chambers due to the excitement dying down from his initial victory. However there is most variability in the Senate since the Senators are elected to six year terms instead of two like their counterparts in the house. And no it doesn’t cause the government to collapse. We’re a presidential democracy not a parliamentary one. So even if a president’s party loses every available seat in the midterms he still would have the right to stay in office for the rest of his term. Even our closest analogue to the parliamentary system with the Speaker of the House we dont really have majority changing because one minor party leaves and now the majority is no longer. With our two party system the parties stay. But a majority can oust their own Speaker of the House and try to put someone else in charge. A sitting administration may not be removed from office byway of a midterm election unless its a complete blowout sufficient to permit vetooverrides or impeachment. The midterm election only impacts a the House of Representatives where everyone serves for 2 years and thus everyone runs in every election and B 1/3 of the Senate Senators are on staggered 6 year terms. The President is not up for election. The closest we have come to those sorts of numbers in recent years was 2008 which wasnt a midterm and even then they only got to 60 seats in the Senate not 66. What typically happens is that the opposition gains control of Congress but not the executive since the Presidency is only up for election every 4 years and gridlock sets in. Also by taking control of Congress the opposition can launch investigations against various figures in the administration which serve to generate talkingpoints for the next campaign. Toppled no. Neutered yes. But that requires the executive to be shackled by laws. If the executive coopts the enforcement bureaus and departments within his purview to be loyal to him and not the constitution then you’ve got a problem cause one side legislative has words and pens and the other executive has the monopoly of violence. Lots of great answers hereI just want to add for my fellow Americans that midterms usually have very low voter turnout compared to presidential election years but they can still make a huge difference. Dont forget to vote on midterm elections! Thank you all for the fantastic explanations! I have definitely learned something tonight!! Two branches can but not the president No The president is 4 years unless they quit or die. House is 2 years so 100% every midterm and general election Senate is 6 years so 33% every 2 years. So midterms does have the chance of messing up trifectas. If the president’s party doesn’t control Congress you get Obama. National level itll be your representatives and equal chance of a senator election. Locally its up to the state and locally governments but they tend to want to align with the presidential election. So the only thing that really changes is the President election which is of course where most of the drama takes place. As far as government control the norm is to vote against the president so the Senate and the house both tend to change to the opposite party of the president and very little progress is made compared to the first half of a term for a president. No the midterms are to elect members of Congress and they have nothing to do with the control of government. That’s all determined by the president. They run the executive and can only leave office before their four year term expires if they resign die or are impeached and convicted which has never happened. The composition of both chambers of Congress is very important for the success of a president’s agenda but it cannot directly remove them or their administration. All 435 seats in the House of Representatives are up every two years. They’re elected from single member districts of roughly equal population. A third of Senate is up every two years since they have six year terms. Each state elects two senators. We dont have a parliament. There is no sitting government that will change but the balance of votes in the house and the senate might shift. You should be aware we dont have a parliamentary system. The government as an institution is primarily composed of the executive branch which is led by the president who isnt elected by congress. So the government doesnt topple due to the election of a new congress. The only thing the new congress could do is attempt to remove the president but that is a fairly difficult process requiring a 2/3 majority of the senate to convict him of a crime after a majority of the house accuses him of a crime. The only thing that may happen is that the president may have a harder time getting laws passed Theoretically democrats could win enough seats to impeach him but 1 they wont win enough seats and 2 even if they did theyre too cowardly to do it. We don’t have a sitting government in the sat way a parliamentary system does. Our executive isn’t the leader of the winning legislative party he’s independently elected. There is no sitting government to topple we are not a parliamnet And not the president should not be able to be removed in mid terms. Presidential election is once every four years. The midterms are changing though. Data from the last 4 years shows democrats as the higher propensity voting bloc hence why they over preformed in the 2022 midterm and in offcycle elections. 2026 will likely see high turnout from democratic voters and we already saw republicans trying to avoid triggering a special election in Stefanik’s district by no longer nominating her for UN ambassador When the framers were writing the Constitution they took a good look at the history of England/Great Britain and realized that revolutions happened on a somewhat regular basis. You might get one or two good kings in a row probably an OK one but sooner or later you get a shitty one. And then you get a civil war. So they set up a way to course correct the government every two years. If the people think the House of Representatives is going in the wrong direction they can theoretically replace every single one of them. If the states think the Senate isn’t doing its job they can change course. Same thing with the President. Practically speaking you only see big shifts once in a while. I think the biggest one I ever saw was ‘94. Gerrymandering has kept the House pretty much evenly divided too. U.S. midterm elections occur halfway through a president’s fouryear term every evennumbered year not divisible by four. Heres how they work What’s at Stake All 435 seats in the House of Representatives are up for election. Onethird of the Senate’s 100 seats are up for election. Many state and local offices governors state legislators mayors are also contested. Can the Sitting Government Be Toppled? Not in the parliamentary sense. The U.S. federal government has a separation of powers meaning The President does not depend on Congressional confidence to stay in office. So a midterm result cannot remove the president. However a midterm can severely limit presidential power if the opposition party gains control of either chamber of Congress If the House flips it can block legislation and investigate the administration. If the Senate flips it can also block judicial appointments cabinet confirmations and treaties. So while a sitting president cannot be toppled by a midterm result the presidency can be weakened and the policy agenda can stall dramatically. The House of Representatives is elected every two years so yes the balance of power can shift every two years. It doesn’t topple the government but it can makes it harder or easier or no change for the president to push his agenda depending on the results. Midterms usually see a higher number of senators and representatives Congress elected that are the opposite of the president in power. Since Congress makes the laws and the president just signs or vetos them it can have a big impact on how much of the president’s agenda gets accomplished. Most laws need a simple majority though some things need more. For example Congress can impeach trial and remove a president from office completely but they need 2/3 vote of the senate to convict and remove a president. Several presidents have been impeached but none have been removed. But we also don’t know until the election happens if there will be a party switch. No but if a president’s party loses enough seats in the legislature they lose the ability to pass laws without support from the other party. Also we don’t use the term government” to refer to a new executive in office. We use administration” like the Trump administration. Americans use government” for the entire thing legislative judicial executive and all administrative branches so saying the government is toppled” sounds like you’re describing a coup that’s the end of the United States. It’s standard for a new President to propose and try to pass their favored legislation package through Congress during the first half of the 4 year presidential term because of the nearcertainty of the president’s party losing House and Senate seats at the midterm elections after two years. The president’s remaining 2 or even 6 years often have divided government with Presidency and Congress controlled by opposing parties therefore deadlock and few new initiatives. The president himself can’t be removed without ⅔ majority of the Senate for conviction which has never happened. Currently both House and Senate are already near deadlock with very slim Republican majorities and legislation passed this year is a record low. Trump already not a team player by inclination has tried to act using executive powers including some that may not hold up in the courts. Midterm elections are simply ones with no presidential election. All House of Representatives members are elected every 2 years 1/3 of Senate comes up for election every 2 years 6 year terms. So in any given midterm all 435 reps and about 33 senators are up for election. The president is never directly affected by midterm results but it may mean a shift from friendly houses of Congress to ones controlled by opposition party. Yes and no. The President is elected for 4 years so he/she cannot be removed in a midterm election. The House of Representatives serves 2 year terms and every 2 years 1/3rd of the Senate is up for election. In a midterm election control of 1 or both houses of Congress can change. Right now Republicans control the House Senate and the Presidency. In the 2026 Midterm Democrats could capture the House or the Senate or both though mathematically their best bet is the house. With the opposing party having control of one or both houses of Congress they can workshop their agenda for the 2028 election and watch the bills die or get vetoed or just stonewall the Presidents agenda. So not quite like the Westminster system where a PM can be removed from office and a whole government fall but a midterm can have significant impacts on a Presidents agenda All US elections are for fixed terms. The terms are intentionally staggered to distribute power and accountability. The midterms are the elections off cycle from the President are mid Presidential term. Because the President is elected independently of Congress and other offices for a fixed term the elections cannot topple the government even if control of Congress changes. Control of the House and/or Senate legislature can change but the president executive doesnt lose his office until his fouryear term ends unless reelected If the Congress changes to the opposition party the president may have a hard time passing his agenda for the rest of his term. Right now Republicans control both branches of Congress and the White House so Trump is getting as much of his agenda passed as quickly as possible while he has support. Mid term elections include all seats in the House of Representatives and about 1/3 of senate seats. It also typically includes a bunch of State level elections state governors which are basically presidents of each state and state legislature. It can change the balance of power in the federal government but cant REALLY change the president/VP/cabinet. They are often a reaction to the presidential election two years prior and may swing in the opposite direction. No. Midterms have no direct effect on the presidency. He’ll have two more years to serve regardless of the results of the election. The Midterms could change which party controls the House and Senate however. If Democrats regain control of those bodies they could impeach the president. The government doesn’t get overthrown” or topples” like how it does in other countries like what Denmark is experiencing. Presidential term is 4 years. Midterms is some senate and some house. Then you have your certain states in midterms. So no. Topple”. Lol No. The president is stuck for 4 years unless impeached for criminal acts or they resign. The legislature may change parties which would effectively block any laws and budgetary changes the executive wants to make without compromising. Effectively in that case it would become gridlock. Unlike parliamentary democracies the president is elected totally separately from the legislative body. They can be and are regularly opposite parties. Trumps popularity or lack thereof will be directly reflected in the midterm elections in Nov 2026. Its possible that the democrats retake the house and/or senate at that point and based on Trumps inability to compromise I would expect that to result in gridlock for rhe next two years until the 2028 presidental/legislative elections. all house members are up for reelection and about 1/3 of the senate. no matter who wins power it mostly wont stop the executive branch from what they have been doing executive orders and that. It can dramatically change what legislation is passed and the legislation can roll back some of what the administration has done like cutting programs but to win a veto proof majority isnt likely but could happen. So here the head of govt and head of state are the same person the president. There is no way to remove him from power in a midterm election only the general election in 2028 where people vote for president directly. Still the president’s party losing significantly in the midterms would make it a lot harder to advance much of his agenda. If by some miracle the democrats won the entire Congress he could be impeached this won’t happen but just as a hypothetical impeachment requires 2/3 of the senate to vote in factor. It cant be toppled. But it can be seriously ham strung if the opposing party takes congress. It actually happens after most midterms. Although I think this year. Republicans are going to lose Bigly Its funny to me the way that people from different countries use the term government. In parliamentary countries it seems the word government means the Prime Minister and their small team of other ministers that are in charge of making big decisions and generally leading the country. In America and perhaps in other presidential countries too I dont know we use the word government to mean the very large group of people who by doing their jobs make sure we all get to live in a civilized way. In a parliamentary country when you say the government has collapsed that means you are going to have a new Prime Minister soon. In America if we were to say the government has collapsed that means youd better get to the grocery store as quickly as possible before all the food is lootedgo armed if possible. Unlike Parliamentary systems the United Stares divides the Head of Government the President from the Heads of the Legislative Houses technically the Speaker Pro Tempore and Speaker of the House but really the Senate Majority Leader and the Speaker of the House. So the legislative majority can and in recent history typically does change without a change in government. The result is two years of divided government where legislative and executive priorities diverge. The President could be removed from office based off a midterm in a roundabout way Using the current situation our next midterm will have about 35 Senate seats up for grabs. 20 of which are currently Republicans If voters flip 16 of these seats to Democrat then the Dems will have a supermajority 66% in the Senate and they will be able to impeach and remove Trump from office before he finishes his full term I’ve never seen a midterm seriously focused around doing this but with the way things are going this could be a factor in next year’s Midterms Usually the House of Representatives majority flips to the other party on midterm elections. The gov as in the president no because we vote our president outright the parties can’t change him out or his people. We don’t have coalition gov. The midterms affect Congress only Senate and House. In 2026 it’s not expected the Senate will flip blue although it can and might. The House most assuredly will flip to blue and they can make life much harder for Trump’s White House. Actually not hard enough though just a much needed minimum backstop The president is elected separately from the Senate and House of Representatives. Midterm elections can change which party has control of the chambers of Congress but the President stays until his term ends regardless. However if the President’s party loses control of Congress it can cripple his ability to get anything done without major concessions to the other party. If you mean by sitting government the Executive Branch President no. Thats a fixed 4year term. Midterm by definition is an election in the middle of a Presidents term of 1/3 of the Senate and the full House of Representatives. And I wouldnt call it toppling the government but depending on whether who controls the House and/or Senate after the midterm election is the same party as the Presidents or not the Presidents agenda could be pushed through easily or not so easily. Election campaigns are nothing more than claiming credit for getting the peoples business done or receiving blame for not getting or obstructing it from getting done. Who gets toppled from or kept in power depends on who voters decide deserves credit or blame. The entire house of representative 435 members distrusted proportionally by state population and 1/3 of the Senate every state gets 2 is up for reelection. So the legislative branch can turn over pretty significantly and hinder it boost the presidents agenda. First of all great question. While our governments don’t topple” or collapse” in the parliamentary sense midterms can greatly impact the makeup of Congress which in turn can seriously hinder a President. For example Barack Obama’s party lost their Congressional majority in the 2010 midterms and Obama’s agenda was crippled from that point onward. Tldr A presidential administration cannot be toppled in a midterm directly but its power can be severely undermined which often happens in the midterms. There are three types of federal office citizens vote for the president house representative and senator. In a midterm election 1/3 of the senate is reelected and the entire house is reelected. Im sure you know but the president is the head of the government and state and theyre elected every 4 years. Then there is the legislative branch which is broken into two houses that have separate and overlapping duties the house of representatives usually simply referred to as the house and the Senate members of which serve 2 year and 6 year terms respectively. Elections for these offices are held on even number years every 2 years the entire house is reelected and 1/3 of the senate is reelected and the president is elected once every 2 of these cycles. While a midterm cant topple an administration a president could see a massive shakeup in the composition of the house and a moderate to large shakeup in the senate. A large shakeup can severely alter the presidents ability to easily pass legislation in line with their agenda and also disrupt their ability to seat appointed federal positions like judges. Also it should theoretically be able to lead to a massive reigning in of the executive branch the branch of the president if the composition of the legislative branch is altered enough that impeachment becomes a real threat. I say theoretically though because impeachment has historically gone almost completely unused by the legislative branch. Additionally the majority of governors for the 50 believe 36 or 37 states are elected during the midterm election. Party loyalty is a bit idiosyncratic for each state compared to the federal government but a coalition of governors can weild their influence on the president. If you see a huge swing against the presidents party in gubernatorial elections its typically not a great sign for the president. Heres a brief description of how terms work for senators and house members work if youre confused. The house is composed of 435 members that are reelected every 2 years and a number are allocated to each state and roughly proportional to each states population with a minimum of 1 rep/state. The senate is composed of 100 members that all serve out 6 year terms and the terms are staggered such that about 1/3 of the senate is reelected every 2 years. Not in the same sense as youd see in a parliamentary system. In the US you could see a change in the composition of Congress which could potentially alter what party controls Congress but it wouldnt topple the President. Not unless of course theres a drastic reversal and rival party gained so much control they could successfully impeach the President. Thats highly unlikely though. Not toppled but severely hindered. Usually first term presidents get their congress voted in and do the most policy and legislation then the next 2 years are bogged in indecision. The US government is trilateral though the judges are not elected directly at least not at the federal level. Congress can change hands in a midterm but this does not directly affect the executive branch. This is different from a parliamentary government in which there is at least some overlap between the executive departments and the legislative. In midterms nothing in the administration changes due to the election. The president of course can make personnel changes at any time whether there is an election or not. The Senate The House or both can change control however and this affects the way a president operates on political matters that require congressional engagement. The two chambers together share the collective term Congress kind of like how a parliament may have different subbodies the word congress itself is a nonspecific term. On that note the elections work the same as any other the only thing that changes is which offices are up for grabs in that particular cycle. In the US * **House of Representatives** \ all 435 seats are up every **two years** at the same time. * **Senate** \ terms are **six years** out of 100 seats either 33 or 34 are open in each election cycle. Senators are divided into classes I II III and the seats in I are always up for election in the same cycle with each other seats in class II are up in the next class III the cycle following that one. And in the fourth cycle class I is up again. * **President** \ is also an even number of years again elections for federal offices are only in evennumbered years. A presidents term is **four years**. * A presidents term is four years but elections happen every two years. This means that a president has an offcycle federal election midway through their term. This is where the name midterm elections comes from. Trump won the election which happened in 2024 and all 435 House seats were up for grabs along with the Senate seats in Class I 33 seats. In 2026 Trump will be midway through his fouryear term. All 435 House seats will be up again as will the seats in Senate Class II 33 seats. When Trumps term comes to the presidential election in 2028 all 435 seats in the House will be up again along with seats in Class III in the Senate 34 seats. Whoever carries the 2028 Presidential cycle will have *their* midterms in 2030 along with all 435 House seats and the 33 seats in Class I of the Senate. The fouryear presidential term starts/ends with elections called Presidential Elections a useful nickname. But there is a second federal election halfway through the presidential term you might say midway between Presidential Elections. Thus the name midterm election. A site called 270towin collects news polls etc. and offers interactive maps so you can test out different election scenarios. * You can see which seats will be contested in 2026 and click through different scenarios here * And for the House of Representatives here * that site has tons of punditry forecasts current news/polls etc. but the maps are more likely to be of interest to the casual observer so I only linked those feel free to click around the site if you want more depth. 270 is the number of votes at which a majority of both chambers of Congress can be determined it is half of 535 plus a margin No. It’s not a parliamentary system Just assuming you’re coming from a parliamentary system the US doesn’t form governments in the legislature. There are two major parties and minor parties usually orbit the major parties. The president is elected separately and serves 4 years unless they’re impeached. They get to pick their cabinet and the cabinet is approved by congress. Toppling the government in the US means a completely different thing. Pretty much if a party wins the majority of seats in the house and senate they can do whatever they want. Otherwise they have to negotiate or it’s political gridlock. Midterms can absolutely shift the balance of power in the legislature and have in the past. Government doesnt sit in the United States. It is perpetual. The president even though he/she is also head of government does not have the ability to dissolve Congress. This restriction is a direct refutation of King George IIIs autocracy. Congress swears in any new members on 1st January following the election and life goes on. House of Reps terms are 2 years. Senate are 6 years. Prez is 4 years. Basically that means midterms are mostly about the house though theyll always be some senate seats up for grabs. But yeah it can affect things a lot. I wouldnt call it toppling the government since the same President will still be in power. But not having control of the legislature can stymy a Presidents plans and basically lead to a stalemate. For example the only reason Trumps Big Beautiful Bill has a chance to get passed is because the GOP controls Congress too right now. If they lose either house no more legislation like that will get passed. No. Unlike in a parliamentary system the president is elected independently from Congress. A change in congressional leadership means the president will have a harder time getting his agenda passed but he’s not leaving office until his term is up or if Congress impeaches and removes him. That would require a supermajority of the Senate which isn’t happening. This midterm the Senate can’t be tipped. The house can. President isn’t running. Judges are appointed by President. The answer is no. No control over houses of Congress can change which can make it hard for a President to achieve his agenda but the President is the President for the next four years after hes elected regardless of who controls Congress. Its not like a Parliamentary government where the Prime Minister is selected by the legislature. The government isnt toppled because generally once a cabinet is in place it stays that way. Its not like in the UK where the legislative body picks the executive thus making the executive tied to whichever party has the majority. All that happens is that the sitting president has a harder time getting their agenda through once they lose their party hold on Congress. We dont have a parliamentary system our president and legislature are separate. That said if the party opposing the president wins in the midterms it makes their job a lot harder because they are unlikely to get the laws they want passed. Not directly. In theory a party could get a super majority and impeach the president but if they impeached enough acting presidents in a row to get their own majority speaker into power it would start a civil war. Mid terms are primarily regarding the legislature not the executive branch. The midterm” phrase comes from the fact that it happens in the middle of a president’s fouryear term. The entire House of Representatives and onethird of the senate are up for reelection. Since the president is the head of government it is very unlikely that the government would be toppled also not really a term we use in nonWestminster parliamentarystyle governments. It’s *possible* that the newly elected Congress could remove the president but that is *incredibly* unlikely. Toppled isnt the right word since we dont have coalition governments or prime minister or Chancellor etc but the president can be rendered powerless. Think of Bill Clinton for example and the obstruction of the Republican party and nothing got done. Or Obamas second term where the affordable Care act was not fully launched with all of its provisions etc. This is the Hope for the Democratic party with that during the midterms it is possible that Donald could lose the control of the house and the control of the Senate. That would be a disaster for them Everyone’s comments are pretty spot on but I want to stress it really depends on what your definition of sitting government” is. If you’re talking strictly executive branch then no. That doesn’t change. But the Senate is virtually guaranteed to change at least a little. Any movement in the Senate can be a really big deal. The House is virtually guaranteed to change a lot. The midterms are a really good snap shot of where the electorate is at on issues and are often nightmares for sitting presidents. Typically upwards of 10% of American law makers lose their job during the mid terms. That’s including the senators that aren’t even campaigning. So just wanted to stress just because the presidency doesn’t change doesn’t mean it’s not a big deal. The congress that takes office the day after mid terms will be historically looked at as a completely different congress than the one before. If you mean the president then no. If you mean republican maybe? House rarely goes to president party in mid terms. If Dems win house Republican agenda is basically dead unless compromise happens No. The government isn’t elected by a confidence vote in congress nor does it require confidence. The government is elected every four years directly by voters well…kinda but let’s ignore the anachronistic antidemocratic system that is the electoral college for answering this. It happens fairly often that the opposition party will have majorities in both chambers of congress. The only way they could change the government would be to simultaneously impeach and remove from office both the president and vice president assuming that they had a house majority Speaker is third in line. Doing that would require a senate supermajority and would be arguably the biggest political crisis since the civil war. The general electorate cannot change the government in the middle of a term by any means. There are no mechanisms whatsoever for triggering a Presidential election other than at the set four term interval Other than the current administration weve never toppled our government. The majority of either Congress or the Senate can shift in the midterms but nothing is normally toppled. If theres any question as to the legitimacy of the results its entirely possible. No but a President that loses the House or the Senate sees a lot of their power go away. Unfortunately systemic issues with the US Constitution ensures that the Senate is determined by State not population and it would have to be a huge wave for the Republicans to lose the Senate in 2026. Possible but very unlikely. However the House has a lot of power too and a Democratic House could shut down a lot of what Trump wants to do. Unfortunately a lot of the Houses power has been moved over to the executive over the years due to cowardly politicians that dont ever want to be blamed for anything and a lot of pressure from billionaires who want the GOP in control for tax cuts. So a Dem win in the House will help but America really shot itself in the head by electing a convicted felon would be autocrat as POTUS. After he pretty brazenly tried to overthrow the 2020 election and stated that the Constitution should be suspended to put him back in power. Post 65 Some people outside America dream about being American or living in America. Where do Americans dream about living? Author Eybrahem In America. Just further out in the woods lol I find that *most* people want to stay in America. If they have a dream of moving it’s to an area that’s completely different from where they live now although still in the country. If you have long winters that you don’t like you may dream about moving to a part of the country without dreary winters. If you live in a hustle bustle city you may dream about living in a rural area where the nearest neighbor is 30 minutes away or at least not visible from your windows. If you live in a rural area you may dream about living in a city. If you live in an area that in general votes one particular way you may dream about moving someplace that votes the other way. If you don’t like the laws in your state you may dream about moving to a different state with different laws America is so vast and so diverse that what you dream of can still be in country. In a better version of America. *Liberty and justice for all* and all that. America just better. Otherwise Im pretty content with life. Ive never had a strong desire to live elsewhere Europe &amp Japan are the most mentioned in casual conversation. A different part of America. Somewhere it doesnt snow would be nice. Personally? San Juan Islands off the coast of Washington. I dont think most Americans dream of leaving the country they dream of a different location with in the US. Lifes pretty good here not to mention our families friends and all our stuff is here. Giving that up isnt something most consider in their dream. Weebs want to live in Japan or SK and romanticize them based on their media Europe” is broad but there’s a few categories 1. People who want to live in the UK because lack of language barriers and popular media 2. People who prefer southern Europe for laid back atmosphere 3. Fans of Germanic countries/Northern Europe for better social safety nets 4. Francophiles in France The rest is a mishmash of people for reasons” wanting to move to the Caribbean central/South America or SE Asia for their money to go farther. You also have people wanting to just go to Canada or AUS/NZ as well. The grass is always greener. Spain. But the real dream is being gainfully employed in Spain because that is difficult even for them. In the countryside of Italy American in Switzerland here. Ive said it multiple times on this sub. MTH Switzerland is a dream place to live. Weekends and holidays I miss the U.S so much. Never given genuine thought to leaving the country New Zealand. America. Ive travelled to quite a few places. Lots of beautiful places I would love to visit again and plenty still to visit. But I only want to live here despite all the problems. Right here in America! At the moment for me back in the United States. It’s great to be able to live elsewhere but there’s a comfortability that can’t be emulated when it comes to being in the United States. America lol. Id love to check out Europe but I dont think I could live anywhere else. Anywhere that doesnt cost 6080% of my income. Somewhere warm. On a large ranch away from people without being bothered. Probably the same fantasy place that doesnt exist like everyone else does. First choice would be a better version of America. Second choice is Italy. Wisconsin north woods or North Carolina crystal coast. No other country I’d rather live in. The Caribbean. In the woods or some equally remote place so we can be left the hell alone. As someone who recently lived in Taiwan for 1.5 years keep in mind I dont have a barrier with language or culture I couldnt picture myself living anywhere else but the US now. I like traveling outside the US but i havent really found anywhere else that id prefer to live. The freedoms we have here big and small just outweigh what other places have to offer for me. Obviously this may not be the case for a lot of others. I dont know about other people but Ive always dreamed of living in France. Not necessarily Paris....maybe Marseille? I’m honestly living my lil American dream here in chicago. I have fantasized about moving to Europe but I am too lazy to learn another language. And England is too weird. I love my country but I don’t love who’s running it I don’t want to leave my home unless I absolutely have to. I just want a better USA to live in ngl. Above the poverty line I’m very happy living in Southern California but if I had to move out of the country Scotland would probably be towards the top of my list. I once dreamed about living in Thailand and Switzerland and got to live in both places essentially getting it all out of my system. Both are beautiful countries with amazing people. But living away from my home country also reminded me that I’m American and will always be American. No matter how warm and hospitable the people in those countries are it will never quite feel like home. The people I shared my childhood memories with are all in the U.S. my roots the slang I use… it can never fully feel like home. I’m also really bad with languages lol. Tried it not for me. I have so much more sympathy for people who put down roots in a country not their own and having to learn a whole new language especially as adults. I decided to move back to the States because it’ll always be home to me. It doesn’t belong to Trump or Musk … why leave because they are power hungry fuckers? Besides I’m passionate about my country more than ever right now and want to fight for my rights. Leaving only admits defeat. I’ll die for my rights before running away to another country out of fear. America. Not because of some grand pride or anything. I just like it here and my family and friends are here I think people really overrate location compared to people. I’m happy in the Pacific Northwest of the US. I don’t dream of living anywhere else. The really nice parts of America for the price of my part of America. I really don’t have any idea why but ever since I was a little kid I’ve always wanted to live in Italy. I’m not from there nor is my family and I’ve never even been there. But somehow Italy has always been on my radar. And Australia Scandinavia. [deleted] Depends on the person. * I live in Ohio where apparently everyone dreams of moving to Florida. Lots of folks in Northern states dream about moving and some eventually do to warmer Southern states. * Some folks romanticize living off the grid far from the troubles of society they often overlook what a pain in the ass it is to live away from established society although some can hack it and do the homesteading lifestyle just fine * Some dream about moving to somewhere more enlightened and civilized like Europe. More particularly somewhere in Scandinavia where life is allegedly perfect. * Some dream about retiring to cheaper places abroad in retirement where the climate is warmer and the cost of living is lower I think typically places like Thailand or Mexico? * A lot of younger folks dream about living in NYC or LA making it in the big city. I think this tapers off as you get older and you either pull the trigger and move or you learn to love where you are now or move somewhere less exciting but more affordable than NYC/LA Northern Europe Southeast Asian/Oceania or the Caribbean depending on personal means and culture. Finland The South of France. Scotland. The Caribbean. Norway. I dream of living in an island and living the beach life until I die. We are semi doing that now in our 50s on the Mississippi Gulf Coast. We take our boat out to the barrier islands Ship Cat Horn every chance that we get and it is like paradise. The thought of living that life every day is greatly appealing to us. We are drawn to the ocean. On a plot of land with my friends and family living selfsufficient and naturefriendly lifestyle here in the USA. Australia New Zealand Italy the south of France. In a better tax bracket. Italy for me I don’t have any strong desire to live anywhere else. Maybe for a few months or a year if given the opportunity. Switzerland. It just seems like the place to be in my opinion. Usually Canada Norway Sweden Iceland Finland Greenland Northern Canada. Basically anywhere cold mountainy not Russia. Australia New Zealand Canada or pretty much anywhere in the EU. I dream about living exactly where I am now. The heartland of America. Based on statistics of where they actually go when theyve got money Florida. Most would probably say a different place/living situation within the US. A significant minority would probably say somewhere in the Mediterranean or Caribbean. In better neighborhoods in America. Mostly somewhere else in America. California Arizona Texas Tennessee Colorado and Florida are top choices. Some like Dubai Singapore Norway Italy Paris or London. On a remote homestead or ranch away from everyone else In the America my parents got to live in. Depends on the American. Some dream about Denmark and other highly socialized countries for all the free perks of citizenship. Some dream about island expat life in the Caribbean where your money goes a lot further. Some dream about going to Russia for reasons I never fully understood. Personally I mostly think about living in London but thats mainly because its annoying to get BBC4 in the US. Sydney San Diego I dream of Portugal/Germany/Iceland as I grew up in all three and visit regularly… but most Americans would prolly say Great Britain or Italy/Greece I dream of living in England. I’d love to spend the rest of my life in Dorset Devon or Cornwall. Japan Post 66 When does your school year start and end?? As an Australian your school year confuses me so much. I gather it starts in the middle of the year but I cannot fathom why. Getting the summer off means school starts Aug/Sept and goes through May/June. It starts at the beginning of fall and goes until the beginning of summer roughly. So that way there is no school over the summer months just like Australia. Your summer is our winter. And its not just the US I assume much of the northern hemisphere shares the same calendar. I gather it starts in the middle of the year but I cannot fathom why. Tradition. It was originally so kids could help with their families farmwork during the summer. No kids were going to show up in the when their family needed so much work done so they just cancelled it for the summer. Now everyone just expects it. You in Australia *also* have the summer off but yours is at a different time of year. You have summer break in your summer season we have summer break in our summer season. Not that confusing. Cause thats the start of summer. For you Summer starts a few days before Christmas. So your summer break starts then. My sister lives in Melbourne and she says winter there has a lot more in common with our fall tho Since the OP didnt share what the Australian school year looks like I wanted to compare. Here is what I found all numbers are presuming public/state schools...I assume that like in the US private schools can and do have different calendars The school year in Australia goes from late January until midDecember. It is divided into two halfyear periods *semesters* with two terms each the socalled High School Terms. Each term is approximately 10 weeks in duration. At the end of each term there are school holidays. So their year runs on the calendar year with no long break in their winter. Their longest break is after Christmas which is summer there. It looks like its approximately 56 weeks long. They end up with.....about 190200 instruction days per year. It starts roughly in their early summer through autumn and winter and ends at end of spring. Typically in the US 180 is the minimum number of days and anything over 190 is uncommon. The US school year also starts in summer although later in the summer runs through autumn winter and spring and generally ends before the start of the next summer. My nephew is Belgian my wifes brother moved to Europe for grad school met and married a Belgian and as of 2022 became a Belgian citizen and I lived in Germany. The Belgian school years seem to be similarly aligned with the most the rest of western Europe AFIAK. His academic year starts Sept 1 and ends on June 30 with a week long break the first week of November 2 weeks at Christmas 2 weeks at Easter a week in February and a full 8 week summer break starting July 1. I knew these dates because my wife and her brother coordinated when we could visit each other with our kids. My observation of the dates of German school year as that it started in late August had a longer Christmas break than my kids in the DoD schools 2 weeks for US kids 3.5 weeks for the Germans and they had close to 2 weeks at Easter vs just Monday for the DoD schools and then usually ended the school year in the first week in July vs the 2nd week of June for the DoD schools. So....slightly different but very similar to Belgium the Netherlands and France. I think most of Western Europe has a similar schedule the longest break is during the warm summer months a rough total of 180200 instruction days a longish break at Christmas and some other smaller breaks thoughout the academic calendar. So I am not sure what the OP finds confusing about the US calendar since its not dissimilar to Western Europe and other nations in the Northern Hemisphere. The seasons are reversed but their breaks in Australia are still pretty much in line with their respective seasons. We still have schools without Air conditioning so the hottest months kids stay home. Starts End of August Ends First week of June The American school year was created when the United States was a mostly rural and agricultural country. School was conducted during the winter while children were out of school during the summer months when they were needed to help with growing and harvesting crops. As we moved away from being a mostly agricultural society the heat of summer and the preference of summer for vacations kept the original school year in place. Therefore the traditional school year ran from September the end of summer to June the beginning of summer although in many places and for no reason I can figure out it has been moved back so that school starts in August and ends in May. Imagine how an American would get dragged on this site for not fathoming why” Australian school years are different than ours. August/Sep may/June Cause people wanna travel during summer Here in NY its Start of September to Middle of June I know Florida does August to Late May in some places because of the hot summers. Varies slightly from area to area and maybe even school to school. There are no national rules. Typically Early/Mid August to End of May. OR End of August or first week of September until midJune. The School year is almost always 180185 days. 180 days is typically the required minimum. We typically get 1.5 weeks off for winter vacation and a week for spring break. Plus a bunch of random days off for Thanksgiving other federal holidays major religious holidays Memorial day teacher training typically elections etc. Some schools also get a week off in February. The Australian school years starts in the same season it’s just that our seasons are switched. My husband is a teacher in Minneapolis. They start the first week of September generally and end the first or second week of June. This year his last day of school is today. The general rule is summer off. Before air conditioning rich people would move to their summer house by a lake or just someplace out of the city. Because they wanted their kids to not miss schools the school year switched so that the summer would be without classes. In the northern hemisphere summer runs from JuneSeptember. Nobody wants to be in school in the summer time Seasons. Remember your summer in the southern hemisphere is our winter and vice versa. Many schools especially here in Connecticut do not have air conditioning. Whatsoever. The only relief is opening a window that doesnt even fully open for safety. Imagine its 40C outside and youre trying to focus on algebra in a room that feels like 45 smells like BO because teenage boys dont know how to apply deodorant properly a loud stand fan buzzing that never seems to rotate to your corner of the room with those bright overstimulating fluorescent lights overhead. Oh and you need to pee but your school has a vaping problem so youre in a virtual schoolwide queue and theres 163 students in front of you. IDK about you but that sounds like hell to me. Lots of answers about kids getting the summer off because they were historically needed to do work on the farm but thats not something thats definitely true. KHigh school Early/mid August to midMay College Mid August to early May It was the day after Labor day which is the first Tuesday in September and ends mid to late June. Since then the school system has moved it back to late August. Last day of school was May 23. First day is August 1. We are on a modified year round schedule. Suburb of Atlantaish north. It usually starts in the second or third week of August and ends in late April for college students or last week of May/first week of June for everyone else. Its mainly built around the summer months since a lot of people want to vacation during that time and its hot and humid anyway. My sons first day was on August 22nd his last day is today June 6th. My local school district began August 8th this year and ended May 23rd. When I was a kid it started Sept mon after labor day and end June 6 or 7. Most schools get about 3 months off in the summer. When I was in school we got a 4 day weekend for Thanksgiving 2 weeks for Christmas/New Years and 1 week for Spring Break. I think that is how most schools still are. The school district that my kids go to has only an 8 week summer but they get 2 weeks off in October a 5 day Thanksgiving 2 weeks and 2 days for Christmas and 2 weeks for Spring Break. They also get the day after a Halloween and the day after Super Bowl off and a few other days for teacher work days or whatever. It actually ends up that they don’t have more than 3 or 4 weeks at a time without some sort of day off. I think it’s good for the kids to have less time to forget stuff over the summer and more time to decompress throughout the year. But it does seem like it would be difficult for parents that don’t have flexible work schedules or child care options. Early August in Arizona until late May. Other states may vary. Everyone relating this to the agricultural cycle is incorrect. Autumn and Spring are the busiest times for agriculture. Most Americans are pretty divorced from cycles of planting and harvest so they just believe what they were taught about this which is absolutely reasonable. The truth is that it’s the weather. When it’s hot people like to do things like plunge their bodies into lakes and streams and rivers and oceans not things like sit in a room with very little ventilation learning multiplication especially when they don’t have electric fans or air conditioning. Unfortunately this tradition moved across the country regardless of climate. Where I live the hottest months are AugustOctober and school starts in midAugust and ends in midJune when it’s usually nice and cool. As several others have said the school year begins at the end of August and goes until the start of June. However several people have given you the mistaken reason that it was to help with farm work. This is not true. Traditionally the time.when families needed help and hired extra workers was during the harvest. Thats begins in August and continues through October. So if that was the reason thats when the break would occur. The actual reason has to do with early education in America. There was no public education in America only private schools.that only the wealthy could afford. In those days there was no air conditioning and epidemic diseases would.hit cities. As a result the wealthy would spend the season at summer homes in the country preferable at a higher elevation where its not so hot. Schools accommodated this by having the school year begin when families came back and end when they were leaving. When public schooling became a thing they used the school year of existing private schools as a model. This might have been strengthened by the rise of summer camps in the late 19th century due to concerns about kids not spending enough time in nature due to urbanization. What a weird thing to have trouble understanding. Why do you celebrate Christmas in summer when all the movies show it snowing? Makes no sense. American kids start in the middle of the year because we threw off the filthy shackles of King George III who wanted American children to start their school year promptly at 600am on January 1. We Americans werent having it and decided if we want to start school in late August by God that was what we were going to do! Mate…the whole world is not just the US and Australia. The Aug/Sept to June/July school year is the norm in pretty much the whole Northern Hemisphere Canada Mexico the UK Ireland Sweden Germany… You guys are the outlier here and it’s likely because your seasons are opposite in the Southern Hemisphere. You guys complain of US defaultism and then ask questions that treat the US as the default. wtf USA follows the same pattern as the UK where from mediaeval times universities and the schools which were often charitable foundations took a long summer break one purpose of which was so that the boys could return home to assist with harvest at the time the countries of the UK were largely agricultural. It seems logical that the academic year should start after the longest break which is why the academic year starts in September. As far as I know it is no different in other northern hemisphere countries. My kids district starts the last week of August and ends the first week of June. Historically schools werent in session during the summer so kids could help on farms. And since theres a 23 month break with no school it just makes more sense to call each continuous chunk of schooling one school year. School starts after Labor day in Sept and ends in late June Depends on the state. In MA I went from early September through late June with 2 weeks of Christmas 1 week off in February and 1 week in April and 2 days off for Thanksgiving. Had a couple bank holidays like Columbus Day and Veterans Day off too. Here in Kentucky where I live now it’s August May. With a week off in late September for fall break 2 days off Thanksgiving 2 weeks for Christmas and a week in March. But they still go to school on Columbus Day and Veterans Day. I prefer the MA calendar over the KY. Just makes more sense. In NJ Tuesday after Labor Day to mid June. Where I live in PA end of August to 1st week of June. Traditionally later June August are the hottest months and not every school used to have air conditioning. Also probably kids helped harvest crops on farms during those months. Depends on the district but my school district started in the first week of September and ended the first week of June. Starts the end of August and ends the first week of June Depends on the state. In mine its usually somewhere around September 23rd for a start date and June 2530th for the end. It ends about a week into June and starts back up after Labor Day My schooling always went from the second week of August to the last week of May. June/July off I went to school from the middle of August to the first or second week in May. This was from 19972010. It seems relatively unchanged although I do not yet have school aged children. Traditionally the school year starts in August or September and ends in May or June so kids have the summer off. Regardless of why its so fixed in our culture that businesses work around it especially for vacations. Some school districts have tried yearround school calendars that include longer breaks spaced throughout the year but Its not common. Grew up in Los Angeles where school year started around the beginning of September before Labor Day first Monday in September. Our school year ended like mid June. Unless we were in an overcrowded school that was on a staggered year round schedule wherein like a third of the school was on holiday and two thirds were going to class at any given time. University school years that are on the semester system are September to early May. Fall semester is from August/September to December. Spring semester is from January to May or June. Generally on the east coast they start after Labor day which is usually the first week of September so they go later in to June while in the west we start in mid August and go to the end of May. Graduation is after the end of exams in May or June. There’s a break around Christmas and a week long break in March or April. We start in early September and go through the end of June. It’s really nice in late august when we’re still off and others aren’t and really sucks in June when you just want to be done. I’m so ready for it to be done at the local public schools here late August to early June. Early September trough Early june One reason mentioned is the heat. Before air conditioning in the cities theater concerts some workplaces closed down or cut back for the summer. In Manhattan apartment dwellers regularly slept outdoors in central park during the summer. Another reason was the agricultural season. On farms family labor was needed in the summer growing season. So on every front the summer was the time to shut down. Start after Labor Day and end in June. Though the teachers and staff come back in August to prep. For me school started the last week of July and ended the 2nd to last week of May. Start and End time varies throughout the country. Usually very end of August and goes through the middle of June My son finishes up today and my daughter finishes on Tuesday. This is later than some schools but pretty average in our area. So our time off is in the summer. I assume your school year is different from ours because your seasons are different. In my area school goes from September to June. Summer months are June July and August. In New York it’s September to June It varies a little bit. When I was in school in California we started after labor day first Monday of sept and ended in the middle of june. Other parts of the country started sometime August and ended in mid May August start June stop Iowa mine went from the third week of August to the third week of May. My district didn’t have spring break so we got out a few days earlier than other districts. My highschooler Starts mid August Ends late May/early June depending on snow days used My college student Starts beginning of September ends late May I grew up on Long Island NY School started the Wednesday after Labor Day School ended in mid June When I was growing up Summer started at the end of June and the new school year started in September the day after Labor Day. The specifics are different for each school district theres actually no real national or even state standards. Most states only specify a certain minimum number of days but leave scheduling up to the districts. Specific dates and lengths of breaks for Thanksgiving Christmas Spring Break etc. also vary greatly. My HS in NY went from early September to the end of June. Lots of places are August to May. Also NY had a 180 day school year but here in CO the requirement is only 160... Also the length of the school day start and end times all of that stuff is on a school district basis. Add on to this that private schools often can kinda do whatever they want and the US school system is very varied. Back in my day it started around my birthday. aug 25. ended in may. My summer break just started and I go back August 4. It’s not as long of a break as most people think. Anyway when I was a kid in Texas we didn’t have AC. We had louvered windows. It was just too hot for school so we sweltered outside somewhere. The whole it’s for farmers” is probably wrong since more most? harvesting happens in autumn 🍂 It starts in August and ends at the end of May/beginning of June. Fun local fight is that we have a town street fair each year and sometimes the school district will start school the same week as the street fair which means its empty during the day time and locals/businesses hate when they do that. School year begins in August or Early September and runs until May or June. My kid’s last week is next week and they started in late August. School year runs this schedule so that the time off is during summer… would be silly to follow a calendar year and end up with kids off for 23 months in the dead of winter vs. having them off during the summer. And of course the school year was originally influenced by the cycles of farm life 200 years ago and has remained even as virtually nobody lives on farms anymore. Back in my day lol it started in late August and ended in late may or early June depending on how many weather make up days we had. Mid August to end of May in Texas. All schools are airconditioned. Students have the summer off to vacation with parents go to camp work summer jobs if in high school. The American school year traditionally started in September right after Labor Day and ended in June. This calendar came about because when the United States was young it was an agricultural country and children were needed to help out on farms in the summer. Or at least thats what we were always told. It never made a lot of sense to me because autumn is really when it gets busy on a farm. But thats the folk belief so we go with it. Someone downthread said that actually it was because people wanted to get away from the heat and go to the coast in the summers which sounds plausible. In the American South it has become traditional to return to school in August and get out in May. This has started to creep northward. I work in a school system in Massachusetts and our first day of school is usually around August 26th. We do two days for faculty and staff two days with students and then break for a fourday Labor Day weekend. I hate hate *hate* it. In my mind you DO NOT go to school until after Labor Day. I consider it an abomination. July and August are supposed to be 100% schoolfree. Le sigh. Every year our faculty votes on when they want to return to school the following fall. The choice is always either a few days before Labor Day as described or right afterward. Before always wins by 55% to 45%. Always. Every year that I have been here 16 years. Its maddening but for some reason people are *obsessed* with getting out as early in June as possible. It makes me crazy because I would much rather stay later in June and not go back in August. But democracy right? This coming school year starts 19 August and runs through next May probably the 22nd. I once asked a South African friend how their school year ran because of the difference in seasons. He told me we get summers off just like you. 2nd week of August through 3rd week of May where I am. May and begins late mid August We start in early September and it runs through mid May to late June depending on what grade it is or high school or college. The reason being kids have summers off. Down south I think they start in August not sure though. early september to mid/late june The USA used to be a majority agricultural economy. The summertime is when the vast majority of the country grows the majority of their crops. Farming families needed the kids to help out on the farm. Also its nice to have the nice time of the year off of school. Much of our country has pretty cold weather in the winter. My kids school year ended June 3rd and starts again September 2nd. Here in Minnesota USA the weather is now getting into the upper 20s to low 30s degrees C and will remain that warm until August/September. November through March the temperatures are often 15 to +5 degrees C. It starts the day after Labor Day and ends around June 25th. It varies by location but usually in August or early September. Most schools have a 2.53 month summer break and putting that in the middle of a school year wouldnt make much sense Why do Australians claim the new year is in January rather than Tishrei? Depends on where you live in the country. I spent the first 12 years of my life in NYC and school started in September and ended in June. I lived in Oklahoma for 2 years and school started in August and ended in May. I think the scheduling for the schools being open and closed during these times is due to some old tradition. Depending on the state its from August or September to May or June similar to Europe. This is because our summer happens in June July and August. Many Asian countries do May/June to March/April for the same reason. Im not aware of anywhere in the Northern Hemisphere where the school year doesnt overlap two calendar years. School used to be year round but some kids would have to go work on farms during those months while others would go to the mountains with their families to escape the heat. So eventually they made it a break for everyone. It used to always be June/September now it’s May/August Starts in August ends in May Late Mayearly August. It varies wildly by school districts. Some go from mid/late August to mid/late May. Others go June to early September usually the day after Labor Day. When I was a kid we started early september either one or two days after labor day the first monday of september. The end was a bit trickier and depended on age. Youngest grades went until late june around the 20th or so. Older grades had exams starting mid june so classes ended a lot earlier. Seniors ended the earliest usually first week of june. My sister is junior and ends on the 10th this year but the seniors are already done. I also grew up in new york state where the start and end are later than most other states. It used to be pretty universal first Wednesday after Labor Day in September to two weeks from now third week of June. A lot of school districts have moved their year back to a more collegelike AugMay schedule. Snow days extend the school year by a couple of days if theyre taken during the winter. In my part of California we start in mid August and go until late May or early June Late August/early September until June or so My college starts in mid August then the semester ends in December for our winter break then resumes in January and the school year ends in May. We get a fall break and a spring break for a week each and random days off like Martin Luther King Day. It usually starts in September. Historically it began after harvest. Right after Labor Day to 2nd or 3rd week of June In New York the school year starts in early September after Labor Day. For high schoolers the regents exams and final class exams are after Father’s Day in midlate June. You’re gonna go insane when you find out Thailands school year goes from May/June to March/April Feb/MarchApril/May being the hottest time of the year. Or when Japan and Korea do two large breaks in both the summer months and winter months. Just has to do when it works best weatherwise in most places Our seasons are different than yours... would you want to be in school in the middle of summer without the relatively new invention of air conditioning? Also people had to work the fields in summer. Start of August to the end of May. The school district started the school year on the first Wednesday of August. At one point we started on August 2. I grew up in NY and it starts after Labor Day and ends late June. I now live in Florida. My kids go to private school and they start late August and ended last week. Public school is different. They start beginning of August and I think they end around the same time. In NY we had an extra vacation we got a 2 week winter break” in February. Maybe that’s why it’s a later end date Widely varies. In Texas it starts August 13 and ends May 22. In Maine it starts September 3 and ends June 16 Phoenix metro. Depending on district schools start in mid July to early August. They finish the term in May When I went to school 20 years ago wed start in mid August and end late may. Usually the Friday after Memorial day. We always got out at the end of May and went back at the end of August. I moved to Florida from North Carolina in middle school and my school year calendar changed. In North Carolina the school year started around August 20 and ended in early June. In Florida it started either the first or second week of August and ended early to midMay. So it definitely varies a bit but not by too much. started mid august ended late may It depends slightly on the state and county but Id say the vast majority of Americans start in mid September and end in mid June with a small break around Thanksgiving Christmas and Easter. At this point the only real practical reason we have summers off is tradition and infrastructure. There has to be some period of time for repairs in the school and for rest and recuperation why not summer. As for why summer specifically and not any other time of year theres some discussion. The most widely accepted reason is that its a holdover from agrarian roots farming communities would have very large amounts of work in those months from sowing in late spring and early summer to reaping in late summer to early fall so kids would need that time off to help with the planting and harvest. That being said summer break is still done in parts of the country where this WASNT the case for farming so theres likely other factors. What is probably the second most widely accepted reason is that America was one of the earliest countries to really industrialize and we have specifically very hot humid summers in the areas that first had large cities popping up. A population size equal to that of some small European countries being packed into a single small dense industrial city combined with an American Southeastern summer with no AC and you can imagine why people took summers off in those areas. It could get dangerous to have too many kids in one brick box with a metal roof in the 104 degree 95% humidity Georgia summer. Im sure there are other reasons but these two are by far the most common ones thrown around. By me the schools mostly start in mid to late August and end in early June. This is the last week of school for most schools around me. It’s a holdover from agricultural/harvest stuff back in the day. I don’t think this is at all unique to the U.S. though other places in the northern hemisphere have similar schedules afaik. The school year started in September or so after the harvest came in. Kids were helping with that back in the day. Ends in June starts in Sept August/Sept May/June. Stems from early days of school in the US where kids were needed at home during the agricultural season to work. Has stayed that way based on US tourism. We get summers off because historically kids would work on family farms in the summer so they needed to be off in the summer to help out. Its stuck. Historically it normally starts around the end of August or first of September and ends at the end of May or first part of June. Most of the months of June July and August are traditionally away from school along with several weeks at the end of the year always to include Christmas and New Years. There may be a week in the Spring semester that is off for Spring Break and some schools may give a week off in the fall for Fall Break as well. The reason for the summer off historically was so that schoolchildren could help out on family farms. America used to be a LOT more agrarian and until only a few generations ago most Americans worked on farms. . .so children being able to help on the farm in the summer was very important. Also before air conditioning this meant that children wouldnt be packed in to classrooms in the hottest part of the year. Now although air conditioning is virtually universally used in the US and small familyrun farms are much rarer in the US the schedule continues on cultural inertia and tradition. Our school year still runs off the calendar of a agricultural nation from the 19th century. Seriously. Post 67 Which of these sports do you watch the most during the fall and winter football basketball or hockey? Please explain why Not even close. Football is the only one I schedule my life around. Not every Sunday but its not uncommon for me to watch 10+ hours of it. I enjoy hockey and baseball but its more Ill watch if its on when Im down to watch. If my team is in the Playoffs Ill plan on that too. edit I guess I forgot why... I play Fantasy and gamble and used to play in D3 college so I dig the game. Football by far. I don’t miss a minute of my team’s games &amp I have the package so I can watch about 1/3 of every game in the season. I would say baseball but half the games I listen to &amp don’t actually watch. I only watch basketball in March &amp June. And I only watch hockey come playoff time. Hockey. I like the the speed and skill combined with the danger and fair amount of violence. I also like the pace of the game. The average game is about two and a half hours and there are two 18 minute intermissions. College football I have a teen son obsessed with basketball that’s it for our house. Why because Indiana. Basketball is a religion here. Football. 🏈 Football by a wide margin though my wife and I recently got into hockey. Football. I was born and raised in the south and went to an SEC school so it’s such a large part of my childhood upbringing and culture. The culture surrounding it is a huge part of why I love it. The tailgates the rivalry the cool autumn air and the smell of freshly cut grass and a BBQ. There’s something so American and southern about it that warms my heart. Plus it’s a bunch of hot dudes tackling each other. So it’s a win/win. Football for me by a big margin. It’s the best tv sport by far while basketball and hockey are both much better in person. The games are also nearly all on Sundays and each team only plays once a week which makes it easier to keep track of the schedule if you follow a specific team basketball and hockey have a much more irregular schedule with many games on weeknights. Football. I dont watch basketball or hockey at all. Football. It was my favorite sport when i played it in high school and its the sport im most familiar with. Football. College and pro. Though it feels more like a chore now bc of the fantasy leagues I’m in. Always and forever fuck the Texas Longhorns and the Dallas Cowboys For catching a game with friends at a bar? Football. For getting last minute tickets when we dont have plans? Hockey. For having something on while I pick up around the house? Soccer Dont really follow basketball but will be watching the NBA finals with a friend. Football but I like hockey too. The Flyers have been ass for the past 5 years so its been tough to get back into watching them. Football for fall and hockey through the winter. Havent watched a basketball game since Tim Duncan retired. College Football by a wide margin. It is more exciting than hockey basketball and even the NFL. Hockey and basketball are only enjoyable in person but the price of tickets alone makes it not worth it. Football. I grew up watching football and love it. Im an Eagles fan so this past season was extra special. I like hockey but admittedly didnt watch much this past year. No reason just didnt. I dont care for basketball. I also watch a lot of soccer during the winter EPL La Liga Serie A Bundesliga and Champions League. I watch MLS but they take a brief break during the heart of winter so idk if it counts. Ive just always loved soccer and in todays world I can watch it all. When I was a kid I was lucky to find some random game on once in awhile. Well one son plays on his high school football team so that’s my fall sport. He and my other son both play basketball so that’s winter. I don’t watch college or pro sports. Football. Because football Hockey. Grew up playing pond hockey and I went to a university that has a very good hockey team. Football games have way too many ad breaks due to constant stoppage in play. Hockey and even thats not often. I watch them all but it’s mostly football. Basketball and football. Football is big in the South and basketball is fun to watch. Hockey when my wings arent a dumpster fire. Otherwise football just because of the people I hang out with on Saturdays. I dont watch football on my own anymore. But the sport I watch the most in fall and winter is easily soccer. Football. Its literally what my job is involved with. Second to that would be Hockey but its a distant second. I dont tend to enjoy games where there isnt a pause between plays. Football. It’s the only sport my parents cared about as I was growing up so I kinda just naturally still care about it. 橄榄球🏈 Mostly just familiarity as I understand the strategy and tactics better. I only watch NBA in the playoffs with the best teams performing at a high level. Im not strong enough in either basketball or hockey strategy tactics and execution to really understand what I am watching so its hard for me to engage It has nothing to do with what sport I think is better in any sense just a matter of which sport I understand better and therefore get more out of the viewing experience College basketball. I grew up in the Carolinas where it’s a popular sport to follow especially North Carolina. go Heels Personally basketball. USA wide I think the answer will be football. And in certain areas it will be hockey Football specifically college football and its not even close. Im in the southeast and theres no NFL or NHL team in my state but over 80000 people show up every Saturday to watch my college team. The answers will be pretty regional. Ive watched more hockey movies than hockey games in my life. Football. I watch on average probably one full football game per week and listen to my local team on the radio when I am not watching. If you add up all the minutes I spend watching basketball it would not add up to a full game in a year. And you could add up all the minutes I have spent watching hockey and it wouldnt be a full game in the past 5 years. Football. I find all sports other than football and baseball to be boring. Theyre often just random and chaotic to me. I enjoy the stop and go and reset feature with plays in football and pitches in baseball where the strategy and pause is a major factor and you can actively see the progress or failure in the stat sheet as you go even without scoring. Football by very far out of the three sports Football is the only sport personally since I was a kid I feel football games mean much more compared to hockey and basketball due to less games being played. Basketball I completely lost interest in the sportboth college and NBA. I dont really care for hockey that much. College football by far. I got away from watching professional football a long time ago. Football when its on basketball if not hockey *maybe* if the Stars are in the Finals Im growing up in the south and Midwest football is a religion chilling watching it in the fall is one of the ways Ive connected with my dad for years and it just feels like a comforting ritual especially if Im with him or any group of people. Ive never been super interested in watching basketball on TV in person is fun tho I like the sport but its not as interesting to watch IMO. If my Mavs or Alabama are doing well Ill watch or of course if march madness is going on Ive never cared about hockey no one around me really has either. Not sure why just how it is I don’t watch any sports. I watch every Liverpool match including Champions League League Cup and FA Cup and pretty much every Blackburn Rovers match. I watched PSG Inter Milan last weekend. I watched Sunderland win the promotion playoffs. I watched Spurs win the Europa League. Last year I think I saw 7 New England Patriots games live and most of the others as a replay truncated down to 20 or 30 minutes. I dislike the endless commercial breaks. I’m a cordcutter so I can’t watch FOX at all. I stream the CBS games on Paramount. I mostly have that for Champions League. I watched a few minutes of regular season Boston Celtics and a bit of their playoffs when I could watch it with a ESPN+ subscription. I have ESPN+ for soccer. Again I dislike the endless commercial breaks of NBA basketball. I watched zero NHL. I get MLB for free with my cell phone. I could watch baseball but I don’t. Out of habit I glance at Red Sox scores and game recaps. Basketball!! I also watch football but there aren’t as many games Definitely hockey though Ive become more interested in football since the Lions are good for the first time in my life. Before it was hard to get invested in football because I want to root for my hometown teams and the Lions made that difficult most years. Hockey is the best of the major sports though. Its fast intense and every point matters. I love it. Ill watch hockey most nights even if my team isnt playing. College football and professional hockey. I dont watch any hockey or basketball at all I usually watch one or two football games from my college university for you lot team and try to catch the rest on the radio. Im not super interested in football but I do care about my schools performance especially in Hockey then football. I dont watch basketball or baseball at all too boring. None of the above. I suppose technically basketball because I watch a minute or two of that…. Which is more than a watch of football or hockey. A lot of people in this thread are saying none” or hockey”. If you truly want to just get a sample of redditors winter sports opinion that’s fine. But if you want the response to what the majority of Americans actually watch it’s American Football. It’s not particularly close either Basketball and football’s close second. They score often enough for it to be interesting. I can’t stand the fact that you can miss a third of a hockey game and nothing will have happened. Hockey. Its the best sport in the world. Exciting fast hard hitting requires a ton of skill. I have played it my entire life my son plays it. I have coached it reffed it. Its actually the only sport I watch with anybdegree of regularity at all. Fall and early winter is definitely football American. Winter is mostly basketball Premier League and rugby for me. I enjoy hockey if Im at the arena but dont pay attention to it on TV unless my team reaches the Frozen Four. I would watch MLS but by fall my team is usually out of it. Theyre such dogshit right now its depressing. Next year with Andretti sort of in the field Ill probably watch a little more F1. None of them. Hockey. I grew up in Detroit during the 90s/00s when the Red Wings were the best team in the world. I love hockey more than anything as a result. Funnily enough the Lions were in the middle of a decadeslong run of incompetence and I never once have had interest in football. Pretty much just football. Football is huge in the US. Football is huge in Nebraska. My family is really into football. I grew up on it. Football is life. I also watch volleyball. We love some volleyball in Nebraska. The largest in attendance womens sporting event in the world was a Huskers volleyball game. None just like the other three seasons. I have a very low regard for spectator sports and especially for football. Football through January. Basketball from JanuaryJune when my team is good. Hockey from JanuaryJune when my team is good. None. I only watch baseball Football. Only because it’s always on. If given a choice I’d watch actual football soccer but it’s hard to find bars that will show games and where people are paying attention I watch hockey but Im definitely a weirdo in my state. Most people in my state watch football. The only reason Im into hockey is because I have a thing for a Canadian girl. Football. Sometimes basketball. Never hockey. I watch football the most during the fall… because basketball doesn’t really start until fairly late fall. Winter is mix of football and basketball. I generally like basketball more but the Sunday football schedule is sometimes a bit easier catching games. It depends heavily on how good my teams are doing I root for Boston first San Francisco next. College football college basketball NHL NBA. I barely watch any NBA watch a lot of the other three Football keep pounding I watch none of them. The only interest I have in sports is baseball and thats only if the Dodgers are in the world series. The only thing I reliably watch is March Madness college basketball tournament. I also follow my college bball team when theyre good my husbands team and my local colleges team. Basketball is my favorite youth sport to watch and play. One of my kids plays basketball so I watch a lot of her games. I dont care at all about NBA or football but my husband is an avid college football fan and NFL fan to lesser extent so sometimes I watch those games if he is watching. I used to play fantasy football which briefly got me interested in football but now life has just gotten too busy. Nothing I wait four months for Baseball to come back. Unless someone says something about football then I instinctively say go birds. Football and then hockey if the Sabres are on I mean hockey probably but thats only because they play more than once per week. Hockey for me. I live in a state that’s football heavy so I’ve had it crammed into my face since I was an infant. As a result I really don’t want to partake of it anymore. Luckily I also live where we have a great NHL team. It’s fun to have a good team playing a sport that you enjoy. I like hockey but Im in New England Tennis Football during football season basketball once football season ends. Hockey mostly when Blackhawks are playing well/in the playoffs. Football. Just focus on football and then when it ends I can turn my attention to basketball. Probably hockey just because theres more games. I watch a higher percentage of football games than hockey tho. I don’t miss a Vikings game but I miss a few Wild games Football. The one where they use their feet. Because it’s an amazing game full of storylines so many underdog stories so many leagues and tournaments basically it’s all encompassing and never ending. Football by a long shot. Used to be MMA. The only other sports I watch are auto racing and shooting competitions. But those arent consistent. Ice hockey and European football during the mornings Hockey. Fast paced continuous action exciting. Football has about 7 min of actual play over the couple hours of the game. I have to record games so I can skip through all the dead time. Nothing. I have zero interest in sports. My dad wasnt interested so I didnt grow up with it. Football. Basketball. There are simply way more games than football and I dont watch hockey. I only watch baseball and thats a loooong season. When thats done in the fall I put sports aside until spring. I only watch hockey. Football but not the version you mean Football. YNWA in the morning Go Birds in the afternoon. Football. Also Spring Football. And then theres some college football. Basketball See my avatar Hockey. Football specifically the NFL. The reason why is because a I like the game the combination of athletic skill and turn based tactics and b the short season with only one game a week makes every game significant. As a bonus c with a normal TV package you can get a lot of games especially if you also happen to have Amazon Prime for Thursday night games. Football Football. We are huge college football people! In order Football Basketball Hockey That’s the answer you’d get from a plurality of the population Football but only if the Seahawks are playing Football is an allAmerican sport. There are only 17 games in regular season compared to 82 in NBA and NHL respectively. When theres summer break in the NBA and in the NHL there is Baseball. I think the majority has ar least a concept of football season whereas basketball and hockey are more marginal Basketball because I work at an NBA arena Football 🏈 College football and it’s not even close. I love post season baseball but Saturdays in the fall have our attention in a chokehold. College football in the fall college basketball in the winter. Ive never been a hockey guy. College football in the fall college basketball in the winter. Ive never been a hockey guy. Football 🏈 both college and professional. 1. Football 2. Hockey 3. Premier league 4. College football . . . 57th. Basketball Most American Football. Easy to keep up with the games that the team I root for is playing in. Most games are available on free channels. Dont watch basketball or hockey...not interested. Football for sure. Football. I enjoy college basketball but to be honest I dont bother with it till March. I drop in on the occasional hockey game and again both college and pro the playoffs arent till spring. Football pretty neatly fits into fall really only requires a onceaweek commitment if you follow a particular teams and wraps up when theres still snow on the ground. Football huge fan Basketball casual fan Hockey not a fan at all Football. Basketball and Hockey have really long seasons and I dont really bother watching much until theyre at least half way. Hockey then football. I dont really watch basketball. Football Late August through January/February because it is the best sport and that is its season. Hockey From Super Bowl to Mid March because its fast violent and is probably not being rigged by the officials unlike the NBA. College Basketball From the NCAA Conference tournaments in March through the NCAA Tournament ending in Early April thus Spring because the NCAA Mens basketball tournament has been the preeminent single elimination tournament in the world in all sports for the last 40 years and Ive been filling out brackets since c. 1990. On TV football for sure. Turn on ESPN Saturday morning and watch college games all day. Hockey comes on less uniformly. Theres no single day thats hockey day like there is with football. In person I watch a lot more hockey because weve got a nice minor league setup here and the local college is just hard enough to get to that I dont bother. Dont watch sports anymore have way more interesting things to do. Womens basketball tennis golf and alpine skiing. I grew up in the 60s on baseball and football but todays game and promotion is out of control. I dont need 12 experts telling me what should happen. I just want to watch the game... without 14 different streaming services. Football and hockey. Soccer Basketball. I’m a huge fan of both our hometown NBA and NFL teams… but a NFL team plays once a week an NBA team plays about 4 games a week. I’m from Charlotte so I know nothing about hockey lol Football. I enjoy the other sports but I only ever watch them when it happens to be on the tv somewhere I go. Football is more fun for me I enjoy it more. It is also easier to keep up with viewing the games once a week vs multiple games per week is a lot easier to fit into ones life. Even when I watch games of other teams it is usually before/after my teams games or a Monday/Thursday night game of which they only have one game in the whole league those nights. College Hockey. In person it is the best. Someone falls down and pretends to be hurt they get a 2 min embellishment call. Soccer could REALLY use that. Football. Iowa is a football state. Hockey it’s a family thing as me and my sister basically played together all of our childhood. A dozen lummoxes lining up on a field and bumping into each other running around in squeaky shoesand a freeforall brawl on ice. I cant say I have time for any of them tbh. A dozen lummoxes lining up on a field and bumping into each other running around in squeaky shoesand a freeforall brawl on ice. I cant say I have time for any of them tbh. My husband watched college basketball a lot. Especially watching all the games from his Alma matar Basketball. I only watch 1 team for college football obsessively and I hate the NFL. Watching Caitlin Clark play a little bit in the spring/summer too. I love basketball tho. Football distant second is hockey. Hockey and only hockey but I’m from Minnesota and we’re kind of America’s outliers that way. Premiere League Football. Football. Grew up watching and playing football and I still love the game. I have pretty much given up on all the other sports. Football. I just find it more manageable to watch my favorite teams 16 now 17 games once per week. If I want to catch another game its usually the same time or immediately before/after. Basketball and hockey Ill watch occasionally but really just stick to the playoffs. Its much harder for me to get invested in 1 of 80 games being played on a random Wednesday night. Hockey football baseball highlights. College Basketball for me. I enjoy football especially college football but once basketball season starts my attention is there. Ever since I moved to Michigan Ive tried to watch hockey but I usually dont have time to pay attention to it after November and until April. I dont watch NBA at all. Football is the most popular spot in the US and people plan weekends around it. Basketball and hockey are starting their seasons when football is going strong. Every football game is an event. Basketball and hockey games happen every day. Football is #1 easily. Pro and college. I will watch every play of the Chicago Bears and Georgia Bulldogs entire season unless Im traveling. Basketball is #2. Ill watch most Bulls games when I can. A contract dispute kept them off cable tv last year pissing me off mightily. Hockey is weird. I watched and enjoyed it when the Blackhawks were good... but theyve sucked for a while now. So no thanks. Soccer and football probably pretty equally. Enjoy them way more than NBA or NHL. NFL football! I was more of a hockey fan growing up but that’s when my hometown team was better and our football team was much worse. Now our football team is one of the best in the league and the hockey team is still pretty bad. Also so many people are into football so being into it is a great way to make conversation with just about anyone. None. Football because it is 1. Way easier to catch games since a good majority of them air over the air for free and only require a $30 antenna to watch 2. In all honesty the most fun and exciting sport known to mankind I’ve never counted the aggregate hours. But I prolly watch 100 hockey games a year and like 8090 football games. Don’t watch basketball. During golf season though I watch every round every day like clockwork. I watch the /r/GreenBayPackers as required by the law of my land. Football Once the season is over I watch a lot of basketball. HOCKEY Go Boston Bruins I for at least one don’t watch sports at all. I could say though that the one I don’t watch the most is football. It’s the most popular thing in my locale. Everyone seems glued to the screens in fall &amp winter for football games. I go outside or at least leave the room if it’s on. I started to watch hockey this year particularly around the 4nations which was epic But football is my life when the season is on Monday Thursday and Sundays keep me going Basketball all the way it’s a must besides Football. NFL Premier League SEC Football None of the other sports matter to me. This is hard to say because Im more locked in to the NFL and college football than the other two but I also go on sequences where I just watch nothing but hockey or hoops for 4 days straight. Basketball NFL and college has more games than football so probably objectively watching more games there. So lets say basketball. Football very close though. Hockey. Football hockey basketball Hockey. It’s a beautiful sport that somehow came natural to me. Football only. Football. Early season basketball and hockey don’t mean much. It’s the end of the baseball and hockey seasons that are intriguing. Football is king all season long. College basketball baybeeeee! American Football. The other two are best enjoyed in person because things happen so fast. Not that football isn’t enjoyable but with larger teams and all that happens during a play watching on TV is easier. Football Football college with the occasional NFl game. In early fall the tail end of the MLS and NWSL. F1. Because car go fast + different equipment per team scratches an itch in my brain. None Hockey the others are rubbish Hockey. Football and basketball are boring. i watch soccer Football ⚽️ None. After college it stopped having importance to me. While I do have some gay friends into sports most aren’t so I never had a social need to continue. I dont watch football because its 3 hours of ads to watch a 1 hour game. They literally split the screen and show ads over the top of the fucking game. I dont watch basketball because all they do is flop theyre worse than soccer is. Hockey is the only sport where the players actually play and the broadcaster actually lets us see it. Soccer. Post 68 Is praying before events strictly a southern thing? Im from South Carolina and Ive been to events ex. high school graduation where theres a group prayer. Im not religious but Im really curious if its a regional or state thing. Not exclusively but probably more common in the south. It partly depends on the event but its definitely more common in the Bible Belt. Im from the northeast and was shocked the first time I flew to Texas and the airport PA announcer kept mentioning the airport chapel. I was less surprised that the rodeo started with a prayer but its just not something youd ever expect in NYC if you werent at an explicitly religious event. New Jersey here. I’ve been to events in the south where this happens and I’m like what the fuck is going on” every time. It’s always so jarring. No its just a religious thing and as a non religious person its kinda awkward/annoying when youre a part of the group and basically forced to participate in it In California we definitely don’t have group prayers before events like this. Doesn’t mean we don’t have people who pray. But definitely not in a group especially at a public school graduation that would be seen as telling those who didn’t believe in that religion that they didn’t belong. Generally a southern thing other places that more often looks like a moment of silence for everyone to do their own thing and get present. Assuming your prayer works for everyone is an evangelical shortcoming. I went to my little brother graduation at a public school in TN. I am from AZ and was SHOCKED when they prayed at the graduation. So it is very bible belty. No it’s a religious thing Washington State. I cant think of any publicly funded event Ive attended that began with a group prayercertainly not a high school graduation. Every group prayer Ive seen was at an event specifically hosted by a religious organization. I’m in Michigan and it’s not uncommon for sports teams to have a prayer amongst themselves before a game. The only place I’ve ever seen it like over the loud speakers for the whole audience is at race tracks. However if a recent tragedy had happened it’s pretty common to have a moment of silence” Much more common in the South. One of the reasons I always felt creeped out living in the South as Jewish person. I didn’t like how random events had these big displays of religions or career networking events were prayer breakfasts” and such. One of the reasons I returned to the North. No. It’s a religious thing Often in the south but not exclusively. There are other areas that are more religious than average. I would honestly find it disturbing if there were a group prayer at high school graduation. I don’t know if I’ve ever been to any event besides a catholic mass where there was a group prayer come to think of it. People just don’t do that here. No it is not. There are probably more places in the U.S. where some kind of evocation is the norm than not. What that looks like changes. I’m sure it happens but I’ve personally never seen anyone have a group prayer before an event. Im in MA. We dont really just say prayers at events. Religion is a very private thing here. Its for at home or at chirch. You dont just flaunt that sort of thing out in public. I went to a rodeo here in Colorado that started with a prayer with a political message. My family and I were super uncomfortable that just isnt done around here. I cant imagine going to a Broncos game and having to endure a prayer beforehand. Weird and creepy Ive never experienced it where I live Always useful to have Matthew 656 in your back pocket. 5 And when you pray do not be like the hypocrites for they love to pray standing in the synagogues and on the street corners to be seen by others. Truly I tell you they have received their reward in full. 6 But when you pray go into your room close the door and pray to your Father who is unseen. Then your Father who sees what is done in secret will reward you. I’m in CA and a few times I’ve been given moments before events where I could silently pray. I forget the occasion but I know it’s happened. It’s a religious thing I went to public schools in Northern California &amp it happened from time to time. It was far from constant tho. Ive only seen it a handful of times here in the North Ohio/Michigan and when I did it involved Catholic schools so it wasnt too uncommon. That being said it was generally limited to things like graduation but not anything like sports games even when it was against other Catholic schools more common in grade school less common in high school. College graduation was from a public university so there wasnt a prayer before the event. For specific religious things that a group might do together that was one thing but not at anything where youd have folks from a mix of religious backgrounds including those who didnt practice a religion whatsoever. It varies. In high school during the late 90s I was the stat keeper for the football team and there was a voluntary time about 5 minutes iirc of prayer before each game for those who wanted to. I really liked how they handled it. There were two simple rules regarding it. 1. RESPECT your teammates choice whether they chose to pray or not and 2. If you choose not to during that time they asked you to quietly mentally prepare for the game. For graduation we had a separate baccalaureate service for anyone who wanted to attend. That’s creepy as fuck. Not a thing in Minnesota. Not per se. IME its a southern thing to *consider* it a southern thing though. It’s a cult thing my guy. But yeah the cult is pretty strong in the south No. Some religious people pray all the time. Not just in the south. Not exclusively southern just way more common/expected down there. Im from the Midwestern US and way back when they used to do a prayer at high school graduations called a Benediction. But they made it fairly nondenominational in my memory. Just a general blessing and from some guy at the podium and not a group prayer. But it was part of the standard graduation program for high schools anyway. I grew up in southern California. When my neighborhood public school was being dedicated there were local politicians who spoke a short talk by the Masonic Lodge and an Invocation by a local pastor. Its a longheld practice to have some kind of religious presence at public events even when such events are actually secular. But in my childhood it was not uncommon for a public elementary school to have a Christmas assembly and pageant of some kind in which different classes would sing Carols or put on plays early 1970s. This is also seen in the cartoon A Charlie Brown Christmas in which the children are preparing for a school Christmas event. I do not know if or when such practices may have ended in public schools. my grandfather freshofftheboat lebanese with a north midwest wife likes to do it so i dont think the north is *immune* to it but it might be less common? I’m southern. I think it’s a southern thing. No. But religion is more important in the south and Midwest than other parts of the country. Some Churches in the Northeast have them for students Its definitely regional. Im in Arkansas and youd think we pray before everything here being in the socalled Bible belt. Thats not true at all. Events at Christian schools sure. Events at public schools nah. Public events like city events or sports. Nah. The national anthem is almost universal down in the south for sure. But prayer...depends on the location/event/region/etc. Lots of factors there. I believe I’d kick someone’s ass if I had to put up with that before every event and I’m from TX Its not a thing in my part of NY Unfortunately it’s quite prevalent in the northern states as well though I imagine not as much as the south Not necessarily although it does seem to be more common in the Southern states and in rural areas of the country. However I’ve seen and experienced preevent group prayers and invocations from clergy at events in Southern California even at my high school graduation so it’s not strictly a Southern phenomenon. I’m from Michigan and California and now live in Colorado. I find it offensive when prayer is used to open a meeting or event not associated directly with a church. I take no offense during small social gatherings of like minded people for instance a family dinner hosted by my Christian neighbors. I respect their faith even if it is not my own. But to assume a group of people brought together for a celebration business networking sporting event etc etc hold the same faith as the person on the podium is an extreme imposition IMHO Nope it is not a thing except for church events and Memorial Day ceremony. I think not only southern/Northernor Western dividem or the urban and rural. I think a lot of Black communities still do this. Well at least my school did this in Southern California and we were majority Black American. Ive never come across this at school stuff in NC. Maybe a moment of silence but not full on prayer. Not that I can remember at least. But Im from and live in a city so maybe its a more rural thing? This is definitely regional. Unless you’re attending a religious sponsored event I would imagine. I’m from San Diego CA but have lived in Colorado since 2008 and it’s not a thing. Regional In New England praying in public is usually somewhere between rude and cringe. Every day I learn something weird about the US. No. It’s a conservative/religious thing Its relatively common in the Midwest. I participate in a lot of local bike rides/races and Id say about a third of them include a prayer as part of the prerace announcements. Usually its just an expression of thanks and a request for everyones safety and protection. Im atheist but I appreciate the intention behind the message so I dont mind. I grew up in a part of New England thats more religiously mixed. Catholics mainline Protestants Jews and atheists for the most part. Handful of others. Civic events MIGHT open with a moment of silence but not a prayer because you can almost guarantee not everyones in the same box there and youd be excluding half the room. Youre free to pray quietly in that moment of silence but youre not allowed to scream it in everyone elses face and demand they join you. We also didnt use active churches as places to hold elections or civic events. The last time someone close to my hometown tried to use one for a school event it resulted in a lawsuit. No it’s a stupid thing No. This doesn’t happen where I live in NY currently a rural area or where I grew up the Buffalo area. The South is the dumbest part of the country so pretty much. Although this also happens in other equally backward parts of the Midwest. Im from the Midwest and never had a group prayer in public here. However when I lived in Colorado there were a few group prayers I saw. New England here I dont think Ive ever been to anything outside of a church that started with a group prayer. Ive experienced lots of moment of silence events though Count Utah in on that too No many households in the Midwest also do that. Definitely not a thing in Vermont. I grew up in Ohio and my dad was my baseball coach always made me pray before games. He allowed other players and parents to join if they wanted but it wasn’t required. By high school this was no longer a thing for me. I don’t recall us ever praying before any events. Its more common in the Bible belt but its not uncommon in other places. Pretty common honestly. Ive been to inner city graduations in the midwest where they give a benediction or invocation as well as suburban and rural parts of the South. It just depends. Pretty much. At school events the prayers are led by the students or not so its up to them. Only other place outside the South Ive seen an opening prayer at a college football game is Brigham Young University. Im from Philly and if somebody tried to start a prayer at a secular high school graduation Id be freaked the fuck out. Id probably raise hell about it too. I cannot believe thats allowed anywhere in the USA should be totally unacceptable to force group prayer on students. I lived in Nebraska Minnesota Wisconsin Illinois and Colorado. When my siblings moved to South Carolina I was shocked at the amount of public games events ceremonies that had group prayers beforehand. Many of these events were hosted by the public school system and the city but it was in a small town in South Carolina. I specifically remember one basketball game…everyone prayed beforehand and then people were invited to go into a separate room to speak to someone if they wanted to be saved by Jesus Christ. Absolutely jarring and shocking….and kind of hilarious. Throughout the bible belt and other civilizations that have a biblical base. Primarily in the south. Its a regional thing mostly tied to the Religious right wing in politics. I grew up in the South attended parochial schools and still find it jarring outside of an explicitly religious context or in a private home like saying grace or something. It’s regional. It would not be done in Massachusetts or surrounding states. ACLU would get invited to take a case if done at any school event. At work it would be considered crass and prejudicial. Keep your religion to yourself. In rural Ohio there was a prayer over the loudspeaker for every football and basketball game at our public high school. Also at graduation and there was also a speech sermon by a local minister. Nah they do it in the Middle East too I’m in SW MO and I’d say most events start with a prayer. I went to a graduation last month and we began with the pledge of allegiance and a group prayer lol Just realized my area had a lot more prayer before doing stuff than I remember. My high school had a prayer circle around the flag pole in the mornings before school started. Funny story I brought my Our Lady Guadalupe candle for finals and there were other Hispanic kids with the same idea lol Depends on the event and the location but even here in Oregon I occasional encounter it. Most of us prayed before our football games for example. It’s definitely more common in the South. You also see it in the Appalachian region in parts of the North. Most everywhere else you should not expect events to start with a prayer unless you’re in a church at a private social event or part of an organization that emphasizes cooperation with its members’ religions eg Scouting. Cant imagine this happening in the north Im from upstate NY and was absolutely APPALLED the first time I experienced this at a mandatory work event in DC. No Strictly no. More common? Yes. They also do this in rural areas of Indiana. It’s highly annoying. In Alabama yes for nearly every mass gathered extra curricular activity. However it’s usually just a moment of silence” Very normal in Utah. I still remember the first event I went to when I was 15 where everybody just started eating and I was confused because we hadnt prayed yet Its a cultist thing We have this thing called separation of church and state in the Constitution and in Massachusetts having read said document we do not pray before government events. Or for that matter public events where people of different religious faiths might gather. Religion is between you and the higher power you do or do not believe in. Ive lived in South Carolina my entire life. Ive never seen a public prayer before an event once. It was discontinued at my school in the late 70s during the satanic and cult craze when someone pointed out that if they allowed one religion they need to include any that request it. That also ended all church and bible groups with any school connections. Were a refugee and immigrant city so being Christian isnt as standard as some areas and Buddhists of all sorts are not uncommon just to name one and in the 70s were looked at with suspicion by some. The hare krisnas definitely had cult status for awhile. Jonestown happened in the late 70s and the Manson murders were fresh in peoples minds. Im from Ohio in the rural Midwest and public prayer before events happen pretty frequently. I’ve lived in a number of places in the US NorCal NYC NH ATL and unless an event was actually religious I have never been to an event that had a prayer to begin it. A moment of silence? Occasionally like of it was a holiday where we were honoring sacrifice/hard work. But prayer used like the National anthem at a game? Absolutely not. Frankly it would freak me out if it even happened. I remember visiting my Midwest cousins when I was a kid and seeing them say grace at dinner for the first time and I was so confused I just was frozen for the 30 seconds they did it. It happens sometimes in NC. People force it on family events too. Im from Hawaii and people there pray before lots of stuff. Edit now that I think about it Hawaii is the most southern state after all. Definitely a regional thing. Saw it happen once to me in NY its arguably not legal for schools. I think its common in football everywhere. Any other event no not really. I went to a catholic school and the only time I can remember any prayers before an event was playing football for the public HS cuz my school was too small for that. Yeah not really outside of an explicitly religious setting. My assumption has always been that it’s because people here care a little more about diversity and religious freedom and not making people uncomfortable than they care about making sure everyone knows God is good—possibly because there is more diversity of religion in more northern areas? At any secular event in my area which has a lot of Somali refugees there will probably be a few hijabis in the room which would likely prevent anyone with a sense of shame from trying to lead everyone in Christian prayer. Probably more of a rural thing there is a lot of that in the south... But its not called the Bible belt without reason Um... Id assume so because Ive lived many places Baltimore Vegas Seattle etc... and currently live in Denver... Never once have I seen a prayer before an event and if I did Id leave that event... No Usually unless its an explicitly religious event. Lets put it this way I grew up in Utah. Mormon West Jerusalem. In the 70s and 80s. And I never remember prayers before events. My uncle is super religious lives in Wisconsin. When he got married we went for the weekend. They prayed before every meal including movie snacks before the softball game the guys played before the rehearsal started before we all said goodnight and before the bridal party lined up before the wedding. My brother joked that he wanted to ask for prayers for a swift and satisfying shit before he went to the bathroom. Seemed very performative and paranoid to group pray over every little thing multiple times a day. I feel like it is also a Bible belt thing. No we do it in Utah Definitely a southern/religious thing. Never experienced that. Nope. Not at all! Group prayer before a high school graduation? What the actual fuck? I always pray before a meal Its just a family custom I think its not a regional thing as much as its a religious thing And more people are definitely religious in the south. But its not exclusive to the south Post 69 In a few words how would you describe the experience of driving through rural America? Short distances long distances commutes... Any driving you do in rural America! Trying to get an idea of the general attitude toward travel through those parts of the country. Which rural America? Man there are so many flavors it’s an unanswerable question You’re going to need to be more specific. Rural in Texas is very different than rural in Washington for example. Florida is very different from Maine etc. In California alone you have mountain rural desert rural farm country rural coastal rural back woods rural. Each is very distinct from the other. I feel like there are very few responses here from people that actually live in rural areas. Its not all corn and livestock lol. Different regions are going to be worlds apart. Rural can mean Appalachian backroads Indiana cornfields West Texas oil field country New Mexico desert Vermont farms upstate New York estates Florida highways or Oregon logging communities. The only thing any of them have in common is lower population and longer stretches of road without human habitation. Rural america can vary greatly depending on region. Corn corn corn lions den adult superstore corn corn corn cows HELL IS REAL corn corn corn Are you going to heaven or hell? 83 for truth corn corn corn Replace corn with regional crop. Rural areas arent as homogeneous as you would think. I live in the most rural county in my state and transporting me to a rural majority black county in Mississippi or a native reservation in South Dakota would be such a culture shock. Not a bad thing but very different. Very different climates geography cultures and history. My favorite thing to do. I’ve driven from Montana to Texas to Arizona on two lane roads. I’ve also driven from North Carolina to Maine and Miami and from NC to North Dakota Colorado etc. Hard to put in just a few worlds but experiencing the incremental change to the landscape is my favorite part. Like when driving from NC to Wyoming and by the time I hit Paris. Illinois you can feel the change from east to plains. Or just past North Platte Nebraska when the crops give way to ranch land. Let me add this quote from William Least HeatMoon’s Blue Highways The true west differs from the east in one great pervasive influential and awesome way space. the vast openness changes the roads towns houses farms crops machinery politics economics and naturally ways of thinking. how could it do otherwise? Space west of the line is perceptible and often palpable especially when it appears empty and its that apparent emptiness that makes matter look alone exiled and nonconnected. Things show up out here. No one not even the Sojourner escapes the expanses. You cant get away from them by rolling up the safety glass and speeding through because the terrible distances eat up speed. Even dawn takes nearly and hour to cross Texas. Still drivers race along but when you get down to it they are people uneasy about space.” Calming beautiful and quiet What most people are describing here is Great Plains and midwestern rural. There is also mountain rural Appalachian Rocky Mointain Black Hills and Sierra Nevadas and coastal rural and southwest rural. Those are very different to drive through from one another and all very different from the corn and cows” trope. But as far as agricultural rural goes I would prefer to never have to drive I80 through Nebraska ever again. Good god that’s to be the most boring drive in the US. Corny Depends on the state or in some cases the part of the state you are in. Illinois and Kansas rural is boring flat land with little of interest. Missouri and Arkansas rolling hills of the Ozarks is beautiful. You’re probably going to get a lot of answers here. The geography of the United States is so diverse that in most places in the world these regions would be divided into their own countries. You can have a pleasant day driving the Tamiami Trail as it crosses over the Everglades. You could also spend your day driving over the amber waves of grain further west you’re hearing people say. The rural Midwest is probably the most boring sorry Indiana I’m blaming you for this one. If you take one of the old state highway routes instead of the interstate the southeastern United States will resemble something straight out of Forrest Gump. The Utah desert is especially cool too damn I’m ready to hit the road lol You basically drive from one gas station to the next It used to seem crazy to just go drive through nothing and nowhere with just a paper map But with GPS you can route yourself from rest stop to gas station to small town etc etc Where I live its a lot of cotton soy and pine trees Its all fun and games until you get lost on a reservation and end up on a two lane straight road all the way through Nebraska I drive from Cincinnati to Iowa City about once a year for work because there is no good way to fly there. The drive is boring AF! If youre driving through it on a road trip or whatever its a normal highway driving experience. Some rural areas are very boring like Kansas or Nebraska and some are very pretty like driving over the Rockies. Highway driving is pretty much the same everywhere. If youre getting off the highway it very much depends which rural region youre in and where youre going. Some are easily accessible by good roads and some are much less accessible and have a lot of winding dirt roads. The experience can vary drastically within 50 miles depending on what type of road and where youre trying to go. I live in a very rural area. We casually wave at other drivers when we pass by. If we recognize them on one of the backroads we may stop and say hello. We have a small bison sanctuary near us. And the bison knocked down a section of fence. A neighbor was stopped already. When we pulled up she asked if I knew the number for the ranch. I didn’t but suggested she call the sheriff. Sorry too many words. Different parts of rural America are different. Pennsylvania is mostly mountains and woods. Ohio is corn and the occasional religious billboard. Texas is beautiful but in a if something happened no one would ever find me” way. Its mostly just farmland tbh Live in rural New England. The roads are winding and generally they are tree lined. You drive past farms and lakes as well as small towns which are frequently charming. It is especially beautiful in the fall when the leaves change colors. It is especially great in a convertible or my personal preference on a motorcycle. Driving through Kansas from Illinois to Colorado trip was the WORST drive I’ve ever experienced in the US. 🌽🌽🌽🌽🌽🌽🌽 Second worst was the Pennsylvania Turnpike going from Ohio to Massachusetts. At night. That John Denver is full of shit man. Its empty and some of these small towns are hitnmiss when it comes to welcoming outsiders. Relaxing but keep an eye out for wildlife and farm animals In PA it’s gorgeous forests rivers some farms confederate flags mountains more beautiful trees… Peaceful with skunk smell in the distance. In the Northeast / PNW / either Coast line constant awesome of the beauty of nature relaxing. Midwest / southwest boring flat endless desert or farms feels like purgatory. Which rural America? Alaska? Florida? Texas? Kansas? Maine? Tennessee? Michigan? Louisiana? Peaceful. Its not all corn everywhere. Pennsylvania? Lots of mountains. West Virginia? Lots of mountains. Upper Michigan? Forests and water. Northern Wisconsin? Forests and water. Southern Wisconsin? Meadows and corn or bean fields. Driving through more scenic rural areas is actually a pleasure. Id 100% take M95 that over freakin I95 with twelve lanes of cars barely scooting along. But in the middle of Illinois where its flat and its just grass or corn as far as you can see? It gets old fast. Rural New England? Curves and bends and ups and downs weaving through the narrow roads of the tree covered hills. Watch out for the deer. From rural PA getting stuck behind an Amish buggy on 119. Get an audiobook. You pass by a lot of farms and can point out animals to kids. Phone service doesn’t always work so try to have a back up for digital media if you want music or something playing. You know you’ve found super country when there is only one place to buy food and shop. The drives can be beautiful. I live urban but my family live rural. Both areas have maintained roads and unmaintained roads. Both have times of day when they are busier than other times though the rural areas have less traffic in general by a large margin. In the rural areas there are a lot less bars stores and gas stations. In urban areas there is a lot of stop and go with frequent traffic light and stop signs. The speed limits are usually lower in urban areas too. In rural areas there is a lot less stopping and higher speed limits. Rural Illinois is just corn. Miles and miles of corn. Corn and soy fields. Also amazing propaganda billboards. Some cute little towns as well. Cheap everything as well. I quite love it in Texas. A lot of houses no longer being maintained and left to rot instead of getting knocked down I noticed in rural America. Depends on where youre driving. In the Midwest its flat and boring and agriculture fields as far as you can see. But then you also have places like the rural mountains of the Appalachians or Rockies and its twisty and winding and can be a lot of fun to drive. Theres a lot of great driving in the Pacific Northwest and New England also. Depending on the part of the country you can drive hours and see nothing except nature corn or prairies or desert all depends where. In broad terms it’s just massive. I’ve driven all over the country. In the east it’s an endless forest. Then you get to the great plains and it’s an ocean of grass. Then you hit the rockies and you’re amazed by the scale of it all. In the moutains and forests the roads are often winding and narrow. In the fields or in the desert they are usually long and straight. Interstate highways are the same everywhere mostly. Just drove from California to Idaho and back last month passing through Nevada and part of Oregon. The NevadaOregon part was so empty just gorgeous mountains and desert with an occasional farm. I live semirurally in NorCal and it’s so lovely here. Forests and meadows and hills getting emptier as you get further into the country. It’s very peaceful I am from a small town in Southern Illinois so to me it’s so boring 🥱 that’s y I left. 😂 Children of the Corn 🌽 And yaaasssss. Lions Den. 😂 Flat boring farm fields corn wheat soybeans pasture/grazing land for miles on end sometimes billboards sometimes a small town sometimes a gas station the distance between two interesting things is very far. Corn corn corn soybeans corn giant aluminum cross porn store fireworks stand corn …. Rural US... The more rural the more ostensibly sane and peaceful. In fact there is much suffering. Low key. Informative about the lives of people who are often marginalized in our minds. These are my wifes people so IMHO They are the best people in the US. First 20 minutes oh its so nice out here! {big breath of air} 75 minutes in I could do this all day! 4 hours in Im so fucking done with cows an shit... It can be pleasant or frustrating depending on the weather and the traffic. Now you might mistakenly think Oh thats also true of the city. But no. Having moved from a major metropolitan area to a rural area it is not. You hit a patch of frustrating traffic in the city or anblocked road and youre like Ah okay Ill take a different route. But in rural America there ISNT an alternate route. You just have to sit there for 30 minutes until the local fire department comes to clear the tree that fell across the road while a bunch of pissed of lumberjacks are screaming at the cops that they have axes hooks and saws in their trucks! Give them five minutes and theyll have the road cleared! Cows and lots of land. I once drove from Colorado to New Mexico to Nevada on a shortish road trip. The fast highway speeds wide lanes straight roads I could do 68 hours a day driving and not be fatigued as much as a 2 hour drive in the North East. On the other hand rural New York/Connecticut/Vermont in the snow can be a real challenge beyond anything in the cities. But yeah rural can mean a lot of things. Flat wide country hot never ending deserts wooded hills or winding between massive mountains. Roads can be anything from dirt to gravel to badly maintained pavement to beautiful huge highways. Flat endless void. I drove a 5th wheel camper from Virginia to Montana and back. The more rural the better people are typically nicer Cornfields. Driving thru communities in the Eastern Sierras is completely different than driving thru rural communities in the Mojave desert. No traffic I love it. I listen to audio books and podcasts. Get lost in my thoughts. Eat in local diners. Stop at offbeat attractions. In rural flatlands peaceful meditative time to think about life In rural mountains fuckfuckfuck semis going 110MPH 177KPH downhill on 3 sides and a fucking 700 drop on the fourth fuck whatthefuck *grips steering wheel harder* I live in Ohio. Corn corn soybeans corn HELL IS REAL corn corn soybeans corn Grandpas Cheese Barn. Monotonous. Either you are on Interstates moving quickly through farmland or you are on backroads and after a while the towns start to all look the same. What part of rural America? The High Plains? The Appalachian plateau? The Deep South levee country? The Arizona desert? The Alaskan wilderness? The North Maine woods? Each are a different experience and each carries a different set of challenges and rewards. Might as well ask Whats the language on Earth? So. Much. Corn. rural northern California is very pretty and empty. lots of trees often rugged terrain. towns are few and far between. if you stop in one it often feels a bit sad to me. Not a lot of economic opportunities in these spots. Edit [Here] https//www.google.com/maps/place/Humboldt+County+CA/@40.1191087123.79519063a75y169.45h92.28t/data=!3m7!1e1!3m5!1s0Ma81UHGZInFqI4S9udcgQ!2e0!6shttps%2F%2Fstreetviewpixelspa.googleapis.com%2Fv1%2Fthumbnail%3Fcb_client%3Dmaps_sv.tactile%26w%3D900%26h%3D600%26pitch%3D2.2848351532204987%26panoid%3D0Ma81UHGZInFqI4S9udcgQ%26yaw%3D169.44784784683338!7i16384!8i8192!4m6!3m5!1s0x54d3dff475f054b10x343a79347db1267f!8m2!3d40.7450055!4d123.8695086!16zL20vMGt2MnI?entry=ttu&ampg_ep=EgoyMDI1MDUyNy4wIKXMDSoASAFQAw%3D%3D are roads Ive [driven] https//www.google.com/maps/place/I80/@39.3298078120.58933453a75y283.7h91.1t/data=!3m7!1e1!3m5!1sbEUucQz5Q3abopeURmfBQ!2e0!6shttps%2F%2Fstreetviewpixelspa.googleapis.com%2Fv1%2Fthumbnail%3Fcb_client%3Dmaps_sv.tactile%26w%3D900%26h%3D600%26pitch%3D1.098718744423138%26panoid%3DbEUucQz5Q3abopeURmfBQ%26yaw%3D283.6950032783035!7i16384!8i8192!4m6!3m5!1s0x879873f6bb8f48d50x500e4702124c4f3!8m2!3d40.7269343!4d98.6697482!16zL20vMGxmeDQ?entry=ttu&ampg_ep=EgoyMDI1MDUyNy4wIKXMDSoASAFQAw%3D%3D in the past years. I commute 20 miles through rural country at 4am. Im just looking out for loose deer hogs and cows. And when the fog rolls in so thick you cant see a few feet from your hood I just hope I dont die. Seriously though Ive had a coworker who died after she hit a deer. And another lost her leg from hitting a hog on her motorcycle depends when and where youre going. It can be lovely and relaxing in the middle of the day or terrifying driving around the Ozarks at night. Depends on where in rural America youre at. Can be very mountainous with great scenery. Can be flat and very boring. Can be forested so all you see is trees on either side of the road or can be wide open with plains or farmland. There is a lot of rural America and can be very different. California has more rural areas than people think for example. Green… lots of green… at least during spring/summer. Then it’s mostly brown/gray the rest of the year. A wide variety. Some beautiful vistas and some boring ones. Some cutesy towns and some dilapidated ones dying a slow death. The one consistent thing will be that your destination is quite a ways from where you are. The kids will ask how much longer? from the back seat and the answer will *always* be 5 hours. I grew up in central Illinois corn and soybean country. If you drive down chip and seal or blacktop roads many people in cars or on porches will wave to you. Its polite to nod or wave back. I love to stop at small local restaurants or diners and ask what is the special or what they recommend. You can get some fine home cooked meals. Just listening to the conversations around you can be fun. If you see a round table in the back with a group of farmers try to sit close. The conversation will always be weather too wet too dry too much government interference or crops. You can smile when they talk about Warshington yep with an R but they will help you out in a jam and shake your hand when they greet you. Flat Most of my experience is driving through rural Oregon. Lots of trees and oftentimes fields until you get east of the mountains where it turns to desert. Usually no traffic unless youre going through a mountain pass or near the freeway entrances in which case youll see people and semis. Its pretty and easy to drive. I live in a rural area. The general theme is that traffic is much much lighter and generally moves with far less stopandgo than in urban or suburban areas. To drive a comparable distance here generally takes much less time. Even on the nearby interstate theres times where you cant see another car on the road. So many different varieties some good some bad. From NY to GA is pretty nice for the most part. Between the east coast to Denver is cool up till a little west of KC then it gets boring in most of it scary in some places. From Denver to Western MN is mostly boring AF with some downright scary small towns in between. From Denver to DFW is pretty boring. To the PNW has some pretty places the further west you get but WY sucks for the most part. NM sucks mostly as does AZ other than the landmarks. Monument valley is cool. Driving through CA’s farmland is way better than most other farming stretches IMO. And when you get to the coast whew! Gorgeous! Just my experiences. YMMV. I consider myself to live in a semi rural area. I live just outside the limits of a town of 500. But there isnt too much of a town we have a tavern/general store a bar with no food a few churches and a town hall. Thats it. But in 15 minutes I can be in a large city 15k where there are amenities. So in my local area you can drive 1530 minutes and do whatever you need to. If you want a really good paying job you are getting on the interstate for an hour drive. There are much more rural areas though. It is not uncommon in my state to need to drive 1.5 hours to the nearest WalMart. As for specific driving it is mostly 2lane state highways if you are actually traveling somewhere. 2 fairly wide lanes a shoulder double yellow and white lines. Once you get into the smaller roads they can be as narrow as 12 ft especially some bridges dirt or crumbling asphalt no lines and poor signage. I just drove from Knoxville tn to Lake Tenkiller OK. I can safely say that some parts of rural America are mostly full of trees. Lots and lots of bright green leafy trees. And hills and mountains from the smokies in tn to the ozarks in Arkansas and east Oklahoma I live in a very rural area that just happens to be on the way to some of the most beautiful beaches anywhere. From March Spring Break through the end of April then June through the middle of August I avoid the main highways beach traffic uses. I take back roads preferably dirt ones whenever possible. Way safer and way less traffic. Many people get to this point in their journey to the beach and have lost all sense of self preservation and are so determined to beat Siri’s estimate that they drive like complete lunatics. Passing over blind hills passing around curves not slowing down for construction not being cautious around farm equipment etc. Lots and lots of ruined/abandoned buildings. Ruined houses barns gas stations etc. Theres a gas station near my parents place thats leaning to one side. And then randomly every few miles theres a mansion sandwhiched between burnt out trailers. I just drove from Houston to Durango. So about 12 hours of bullshit followed by heart stopping beautiful vistas. 😂 The driving that I do through rural American tends to be the same routes to visit family. Mostly its plains but I can take a longer more scenic route through forests. Ill only do that if Im driving in the day not much point in scenery if I cant see it. Its not especially interesting a lot of farmland. But if theres a new historical marker to see Im stopping. I like to stop and try new restaurants. There might be something to see in the towns I pass by but if there isnt a sign about it I wont know to stop. My hometown has the worlds largest Northern Pike statue. I might pop in if I see something interesting. Pastures cows chicken houses. Mario cart. I live in Texas. Corn. A lot of corn. And wheat. And a fuckton of cattle I just did a few thousand miles this week. Trees. Farms. Barns. Serene. More sheep than I expected Its very regional but for the most part you will find friendly people. Rural Texas? Boring. Texas is big dusty and God hasnt finished making it yet. Rural MidWest and North? Absolutely stunning views nice people and a wonderful drive. If you ever get a chance to driver through the Rockies....do it. Rural West Coast? Beautiful weather and Beautiful drive ruined by asinine taxes on everything and everyone you meet will be better than you. Rural East Coast? Much harder to find rural area but can be lovely. Everything is so far away Where are we driving? Pick a state time of year type of vehicle. Just slow down. You will get behind someone who is elderly and on their way to report how much rain they got to the local coffee place or behind a tractor or some guy who is out checking his fields or being nosy and checking other peoples fields just take a deep breath and slow down. I drive 25 min each way to work. Same to go grocery shopping. I am 4560 min away from the city for major stores/theaters/concert venues/etc. Driving 2040 min really isnt much. We will even drink and drive an hour home. When I was in highschool we would drink and smoke nightly 7 days a week while driving around on backroads. Uber doesnt really exist where we live. So we just got good at drinking and driving. In our town I bet we have 200300 people drunk driving every Fri/Sat night. That is literally all there is to do in our town. Fun if youre going slow on a curvy back road. Boring if youre going fast on an interstate. You have to choose whether you care more about enjoying the trip or getting to where youre going. Calming. I live in a big city and frequently visit big cities. The crush of traffic and craziness of highways suck. When we get far enough out and it’s rural part of state you can enjoy the peace and calm. Music is better convo easier…I love traveling through rural America. Can be peaceful can be scary can be mindnumbingly boring. 4 hours across Kentucky today. Hot boring. Beautiful. Corn. So much corn. So many cows. Speed limit alternates between 25 and 55 Any American who has drive at any distance has driven through rural America. We do it all the time. It’s an odd question. There are very different rural experiences for rural driving. Driving in rural Ohio on an interstate highway is basically indistinguishable from driving in suburbia with the exception of what the scenery is. Driving on a side road in rural Wyoming can easily mean hours of no one. I dont think anyone could give a very good answer that would apply to all of the country. Surely you’ve heard that Americans drive everywhere so the general attitude is when do we leave?” The towns and countryside evolve as you move and no one is really surprised to see strangers. I drove cross country one summer. I estimate there were several thousand dead bugs on the front grill. The rural towns I’ve driven through recently are mostly boarded up. Small town a 20 minute drive along a winding two land road with many sharp curves another small town. Another 20 minute drive to the next one. Lots of trees and hills. Driving 20 miles in a metropolitan area is tiring. On a nearly empty highway it’s nothing. Radio is oldies Christian right wing and NPR. Be friendly if a stranger smiles or says hi don’t be aloof. A secret I’ve learned that’s kept me out of trouble is looking like you belong there. Especially with local law enforcement. Like if I go to Chicago for instance I’m going to wear a bears or a bulls hat or jersey when I’m out and about. Out of towners can get singled out. When I’m driving through multiple states I’ll wear a hat that’s actually a movie prop but it resembles a veterans hat. So unless you’re able to read it I look like a random ass veteran driving down the highway. Mind you I don’t wear this hat in public anymore. I got thanked by a veteran in a restaurant I was embarrassed as hell explaining to him about the hat. In northwest Oregon it’s mostly mountains forests and clearcuts If you’re doing long distance it’s rather boring! Corn corn corn corn potato corn corn corn barn hay hay hay hay cow cow cow cow cow horse small town corn corn corn Corn and soy and corn and soy and corn Some of the towns arent horrible Peaceful and scenic. I love it especially if youre not on a timeline. Back roads and state highways are so much more interesting than driving on the interstate system. You can run across all kinds of odd tourist stops and historical markers fun little shops and mom and pop restaurants too. The view’s nice. I drive through farm fields every day to and from work. I dont really think about it. On long trips it can be boring. Absolutely gorgeous peaceful and soulcentering. Love the open space quietness and vibe of small towns and farmlands. Rural America is a treasure. Relaxing and peaceful. Little blips of interest. Want a lot more words on the subject? Steinbeck wrote travels with Charley” an incredible read about the exact topic. In rural northern California youll run into more State of Jefferson flags. Many rugged individuals believe that the rural counties should secede from the rest of the state. The definition of where northern CA begins varies wildly/. Generally people say anything north of Fresno. In Modoc County though theyd say way above Sacramento. In KS OK TX...sorghum cattle grain elevators wind farms. Can you pick a state or region? That will make it a little easier to answer. You are going to have to be precise about what rural area you are asking about. Rural Alabama and Rural Wyoming are wildly different. Population density can vary dramatically between different states/regions. For instance despite being twice as small as Wyoming in area Alabama has 2.1 million people classified as living in rural areas. There’s only half a million people total in Wyoming. Outside of the Black Belt you would be hard pressed to drive anywhere in Alabama for more than two miles without seeing houses or meet another car. But Wyoming is mostly empty. Technically there’s only 5.97 people per square mile in Wyoming but in reality it’s usually far less. One in five Wyomingians are in just one of its 23 counties. Keep in mind that Wyoming is roughly the size of the UK. I drove from Minnesota to Los Angles probably about a year ago. It was beautiful and you really get a sense of just how massive our country is. The rural areas can feel very isolated and if you stop even for gas all the locals will notice you and check you out. However Im from rural Wisconsin so I remember just how exciting and exotic anyone from out of town seemed so it doesnt bother me. I try to stay pretty low profile in rural areas. Might stop at a diner or something because those places can be hidden gems. No bars or anything though. I love driving through the countryside proper but I don’t really care for driving into the little towns scattered within the country. Simply because they’re depressing. When I see a bunch of abandoned buildings with the old signage still up it gives me an eerie feeling. Like this used to be something this was someone’s dream and now it’s just rotting.” Feels weird man. One warning I would give is that if you are driving through areas with a lot of corn in a time when the corn is high it can be dangerous on small roads at intersections because people cannot see around the corner and may come out in front of you even if you have the right way because they can’t see. They may just be edging out but it can be startling. I could be wrong here but I think it’s from about mid July until harvest sometime in October or so. For the rural parts….corn cows corn cows field cows corn long haul truckers long straight flat highways that don’t feel like highways. This is in reference from driving from the north east across the country mostly experienced in middle” America Midwest rural can be mind numbingly boring unless you take the route that goes through a few of the national parks Southwest Rural takes you through a bunch of great locations especially the TexasCalifornia Route Southeast Rural from TexasFlorida has some great biome transitions as well from the plains to the bayou and swamp The west coast is weird because the I5 is pretty far inland between LA and Oakland and is pretty boring but lots of small towns to stop and visit along the way. But once you get past the Bay Area it becomes beautiful mountains and forests. Haven’t been to the east coast or hill country so I can’t speak for those Sadness of driving through ghost towns with boarded up main streets. Am I channeling Springsteen? I like it. Get off the interstate and enjoy the regional scenery. Example Driving the Ohio Turnpike is fkn horrible. Driving US30 thru central Ohio much better. I loved driving through the rolling hills of rural Lancaster PA A really really fun time. It’s so meditative and there’s beauty juuuuuuuust about everywhere you look if you have the right attitude. Interstates US highways and state highways each offer a different experience. Construction or other slowdowns suck for ruining the vibe though. Scenic quiet peaceful Post 70 What parts of old European culture do you think are better preserved or more present in America than Europe? I noticed that sometimes parts of an older culture are better preserved in another land rather than the cultures homeland. Some parts of Chinas old culture are better preserved in Japan and Taiwan than in China itself for various reasons. Likewise countries in Southeast Asia have preserved some aspects of old Indian culture that are no longer really present in India as they once were e.g. Buddhism. Do you think America has something like that? Could be anything food language religion national customs etc. Folk music and Ballads there’s an interesting study of how various British folk ballads were better persevered in Appalachia and the Ozarks. The Folk Music Revival has a video that discusses the topic and includes recordings from the UK and US comparing various traditional folk songs. Link https//m.youtube.com/watch?v=mUGoWwGKwSA When I took Norwegian in college my professor told us that the Midwest used to be the best place to study old Norwegian dialects because the people living here learned Norwegian from people who immigrated before radio and television had homogenized the Norwegian language. Thats probably not true anymore but back in the mid to late 1900s I could see it. Amish and mennoites That kind of oldtimey hardcore Protestantism that doesnt really exist much in Europe outside Northern Ireland anymore Jewish people. There used to be a lot of us in Europe until most fled to the US. There’s some fun linguistics stuff here where American English is more similar to 17th century British English than the modern King’s English. Accents in particular. Baseball is also a continuation of an English/Irish sporting tradition that doesn’t really exist anymore. Or at least a tradition that’s been almost entirely relegated to schoolyard games. Language. When I was in highschool some researchers from Whales came to study us because the Appalachian Regional Dialect is the closest living dialect to Elizabethian English but when I was a kid it was starting to change because of I guess exposure to TV and stuff. They told us all that and then had us read Shakespeare and told us to just read it as written. I remember one thing that they were really excited about was when we read I dont remember his name Romeos cousin who keeps telling him hes a fucking idiot he often says to Romeo Lord Romeo . All of us read it like Jesus Christ Romeo like as an explitive. Like Lord Romeo you dumbass . But apparently in the UK theyd been reading it as Noble Romeo like lord not like Jesus fucking Christ like lord like the noble title. Like as if your cousin who is also part of the nobility and who is actively pissed at you would be using your title. Another thing I remember was they didnt know the whole thing rhymed like yonder and window rhyme when its pronounced winder and this was a big deal because of how cue acting worked in Elizabethian England when most actors were illiterate and wouldnt have had a script. And that iambic pentameter is just the natural tempo of the dialect apparently most trained actual actors have to be trained to speed up to iambic pentameter but we just did it. The working hypothesis is that ARD English just kind of got stuck in the mountains and most folks were too poor for things like radios or TVs so we didnt change it much. There were some changes like where for? Changed to what for? But not as many as standard English. It was fun. Some ItalianAmericans still make the seven fishes at Christmas a tradition that has completely disappeared from Italy from what I understand. Amish have carried on Plattdeutsch while its dying out in Germany. Imperial Units are the most well known one even if its often mocked. There are little pockets of really archaic Spanish. Ive been told certain Italian languages that are almost extinct in Italy still exist loosely in the United States. Not necessarily spoken daily but certain words and phrases. Italy standarized the language in the 1960s/1970s and immigrants who arrived to the US before then would have spoken their original regional language and passed it on. I grew up hearing and speaking Molisan Italian a form of Neapolitan and didnt learn proper Italian until I went to college. Chinas old culture are better preserved in Japan and Taiwan than in China itself for various reasons. LOL at various reasons Fahrenheit Im not sure of what european cultures are more preserved here than there but I do know that the main reason for this phenomenon is because when people leave their country they want to continue to experience their culture in some way the way they remember it. Maybe their parents handmade pasta for them growing up because there wasnt much storebought so they continue to hand make pasta. Then their children grow up with that and are nostalgic for it its part of their culture to hand make pasta so they continue the tradition. Meanwhile the impetus for it that it wasnt widely available in stores stops existing in the original country so people there shift their behavior. The purpose of it in the old country wasnt tradition but necessity while the purpose of it in the new country is preservation of culture. Probably the best thing I can think of is Mardi Gras/Carnival in Louisiana/Brazil which to my knowledge are less celebrated in Europe now? Wisconsin makes parmesian cheese closest to the original method. The US also has a few vineyards allowed to call what they make Champagne because they started before people got all strict about the region of wine rather than the method and grapes. Any language that came over is going to be out of date compared to the current one just because fewer speakers means the language changes less Lots of aspects of Louisiana culture are well preserved but I cant speak on if theyre better preserved having not been in the other places but off the top of my head ... \* Mardi gras which has roots in multiple cultures side by side New Orleans float design nearly mimics what sicilian carnival floats look like \* Courir de Mardi Gras is much more distinct to Louisiana I think \* St. Josephs alters Sicilian Catholic \* New Orleans grave design is more a flashback to old world influences than it is to form/function of needing to be above ground for flooding reasons however the benefit of that is probably why it became the dominant design. \* Christmas eve bonfires on the levee its done in a few places in europe. In some areas its a function for getting rid of the trees after christmas other places its an independent bonfire done prior to christmas which started as a solstice celebration but the tradition in general seems to be harder find in Europe now. The places where it really grew to be significant culturally in Louisiana were the areas where the rist Germans settled from the Alsace region along the border of germany/france. I think the bonfires were probably common all over Catholic europe for a long time but the French/Germanic regions continuation persisted the longest and long enough to influence the cajuns with german ancestry. \* All Saints day super common celebration especially in the Catholic areas to honor ancestors \* Firecrackers on Christmas eve and new years eve my non Louisiana family says this is a regional thing. May be a southern thing and not just Louisiana and I have no idea if it has roots in european practices but its definitely not common across the board. Ill refrain from including the Mafia here because a I dont want to perpetuate that stereotype and b its no longer what it once was though not gone completely in new orleans especially with the fall of the Marcello family but theres a book called Mr. New Orleans gives a curious insiders look into what it was like from that perspective in NO in the 20th century. A lot of the English language. Color vs colour for example. England changed due to its proximity to other language speaking countries while America kept insulated in comparison. Italian accents in NJ and NY preserve a dialect from Sicily that has since died out in the Mediterranean. Its where the names for foods like Gabagool Manigot Galamad etc come from. The role of religion in society. Europe is a lot more secular in culture than the US and the drive towards secularization definitely didnt happen here. Religion has always had a pretty strong role in American society in part because the US was settled originally in large part by people fleeing religious persecution in Europe. While the US does not and legally cannot have a state religion on a societal level religion has a much larger influence on society and government than in Europe. Food culture. Where I live there were large numbers of German and Czech immigrants in the 1800’s. Most of the foods they’ve passed down are rarely found in Germany and the Czech Republic any longer. Units of measure? Its wild that no one has mentioned Superstition! All those silly little superstitious habits like throwing spilled salt over your shoulder not responding to sounds at night or knocking on wood are holdovers from ancient times. My experiences with Appalachian and Southern cultures is some things are we do because meemaw and pappap did them but some things are a nod to the forces at work in the world. And if you disrespect those forces it can have consequences. So we always crack a window when someone passes and bottle trees arent just for decoration. Cause there aint nothing scarier than a haint 😂 I think the obvious answer is religion is far more prominent in the US than in most of Europe these days. Sheriffs especially in rural US also serve more of a traditional role than their counterparts in the UK. They are the chief law enforcement officers of the counties and they have lots of official and unofficial duties relating to keeping the peace. They will generally be very publicfacing make lots of appearances at county fairs rodeos and other community events and they will always be onscene during natural or humanitarian disasters. Lastly specifically in Northern New Mexico and Southern Colorado there is the land grant system. When these areas were ruled by Spain and later Mexico the King of Spain or President of Mexico would grant certain prominent families large areas of rural land to settle establish agriculture and protect the frontier from Indian raids. Many but not all of these land grants remain intact and the dependents of these original families still live there. They mostly can directly trace their lineage back to the original families and often share the same name with them. These communities receive exclusive hunting rights on these lands and operate as quasiindependent governments within their respective land grants. Additionally in New Mexico there is a large system of irrigation ditches called acequias originally built by the Spanish which siphon water out of streams mostly tributaries to the Rio Grande Rio Chama or Rio Gila. Each system is run by elected people called mayordomo who controls the irrigation into the farmland fed by the acequia. There is a meme stating that America is more English than modern England out there somewhere. A lot of places traditions and crafts were actually Jewish. The only places to get traditional Lithuanian baking are America and Israel. Also Jewish traditions stam. The German spoken by old order Amish communities in the US and much of their way of life is mostly unchanged from the region in southern Germany the original settlers came from in the 17th and 18th centuries. I know are Yiddish is definitely a good deal different but I’m not sure if it’s necessarily older. Honestly it feels like every family has their own dialect sometimes Appalachia sure if you get into the weeds. There are also super rare old forms of Spanish here and there that have been here since the 1600s. My family also speaks Volga German which has all most but died in Russia as the Germans adopted purely Russian or adopted High German now. My family also speaks preUSSR Russian. It’s not that much different though… also the USSR standardized some Russian spelling my family wasn’t there for that. Which has led to my family not using our phones to message in russian to each other they use Volga German or English I went to grad school with people who were born in the United States to families from the Croatian diaspora only their familes emigrated at different time periods. They all spoke Croatian fluently but made different word choices and had different accents. Another colleague of ours ended up writing a paper about this phenomenon which is apparently not uncommon for a Slavic linguistics course. In both Cleveland and Pittsburgh there were Slavic communities that preserved certain words and grammar. Some parts of Chinas old culture are better preserved in Japan and Taiwan than in China itself ~~for various reasons~~ because it was intentionally destroyed by nutjob Mao in the 60s and 70s. FIFY American English particularly the Southern vernacular is closer to Elizabethan English than most accents in the UK are Religion. A lot of Europe seems a lot more secular than a lot of the USA. There are several old English folk songs where the melody was lost in England but the lyrics were published in Childs Ballads Child being the name of the fellow who found and published the lyrics. For some the melodies were preserved in Appalachia and later recovered by musicologists. I don’t think it’s stronger” than in Europe but there are a few towns in central Texas where German is still spoken regularly and aspects of German culture are preserved. All the Anabaptist cultures — Mennonite Amish Hutterite — they do not exist in Europe anymore In some ways North American English is more conservative than British English or preserves regional features that were lost in Britain. Saying the letter Z as zee is an example. It was a regional variation in England when the US was colonized. In the US that became the standard but I think its completely died off over there. This is common among colonial languages. Indian English has a lot of features common in the East India Company formal clerical standard English of the 18th and 19th centuries. Brazilian Portuguese has some grammatical constructions and vowel sounds that are closer to 17th century European Portuguese than 21st century European Portuguese. Quebecois Cajun and Acadian French have some variant pronunciations of words that died out in France. Parts of Latin America use vos instead of or in addition to tu which died out in Spain. Additionally depending on the locality the vos conjugation did not undergo the stem change that happened with tu. For example vos podés instead of tu puedes. obscure holidays and dishes Dingus Day is a perfect example. Another example Bierocks. Don’t how true it still is but years ago I read that Lithuanian culture had been better preserved in the US. The Soviet occupation had actively suppressed Lithuanian traditions and the forced Russification of the language. The prominence of jury trials in the legal system. There’s also a a far higher level of religiosityin terms of Christianity than in Western Europe though that’s true of the Americas more broadly. Especially in terms of various varieties of Protestantism. The Amish. The English language is always a good place to start The US is alot more religious wrt Christianity than even the most religious country in old Europe... I think the Amish must qualify here. This is a very cool question. I’m enjoying the responses!! Post 71 Is there any system to which fast food restaurants have free refills and which dont? I have been to several different McDonalds Taco Bells and so on and it is seemingly random if the location offers free refills or not. So I wanted to know if there is a way to know before hand and if you actively avoid the places with no refills? I think the prices for the beverages dont change but one obviously has significantly more value than the other if I knew I could have an unlimited amount of one. I find its weird that something like that seems to be so random. it is seemingly random if the location offers free refills or not. Im 47 years old and dont know if Ive ever been to a fast food place that didnt have free refills. Are you going in bad neighborhoods or places where they have vagrancy problems or something? Its a not normal situation where people are sitting in these places sucking down Coke all day to make it a problem for a restaurant. Every single fast food place Ive been to in my 35 years has had free refills. Id be more surprised if a place didnt honestly. Even if a soda machine is actually behind the counter have you ever been refused a free refill in the U.S.? Fast food places are often a franchise. Its up to individual franchise owners to decide. So trying them is the only way to know In the US fast food is heavily franchised so there can always be some amount of variation. McDonalds was probably the most famous at one point for offering unlimimted selfserve refills. But in order to cut costs and probably cut labor/cleanup messes caused by the public a lot of modern/remodeled McDonalds are keeping the soda machine behind the counter. You can still get a refill but you have to ask for one. The margins are so small in any restaurant and even penny pinching costs like moving the soda machine behind the counter or limiting ketchups packets can be seen as a big thing when you run thousands of restaurants. No. They’re all franchises no one specific rule. I’ve never been to a fast food place that didn’t have free refills. If the restaurant is in an area that has lots of homeless they often won’t have a selfserve drink machine where customers can get at it you have to go to the front counter and ask the employee for the refill. Never been to one where I needed to pay for a refill. Most sitdown restaurants dont even charge for refills. If the soda machine is behind the countrr ask. If they say no give them the stink eye and never go to that location again. I’ve always assumed that if you fill it yourself refills are free but if you need it filled by the counter person including for drivethrus they’re not. I think that in the last 50 years I may have seen at most one or two fast food fillyourself places with signs saying refills weren’t free. The only universal rule I know is that Raising Cane’s doesn’t allow refills on lemonade Any place that doesn’t offer free refills is communist. Don’t they all have free refills? Maybe some mom and pops don’t but I always expect them. Theres no real rule because fast food locations are franchised. Each one is pretty much individually owned. Theyre slowly phasing out the selfserve drink machines but the question of free refills is different location by location. I agree its annoying especially because it costs them maybe 50 cents to make each drink. Major fast food chains are now franchises. There are some things they have to abide by to remain in the franchise and other things they have more control over themselves. Aka To own a McDonald’s you have to stock it with McDonalds food provided by the corp but you don’t have to give out free refills. I guess it really depends. Culture has just changed. The biggest places like McDonalds and Burger King usually have their soda machines in a public area where you can get free refills. Heavier franchises like Subway it’s a coin toss. Some do some don’t. Then there’s just randomness. One Taco Bell in my area has a public soda machine where you get your own drink. Another Taco Bell in town has the employee serve you your drink and I don’t think there’s free refills. Most fast food places in the US are franchised. That means another usually much smaller company or private individual buys the rights to operate a place under their name and their rules usually pretty strict and very well defined. Free refills are normal but arent mandated by most chains. Thus if a local franchisee wants to NOT have them they dont have to. So no theres no real easy way to tell beforehand. Taco Bell actually started free refills in the 80’s as a promo with Pepsi and it became official policy and trickled out to the rest of fast food and then sit down restaurants. I’m more shocked to hear that you’ve found a Taco Bell that doesn’t do free refills than any part of this. does seem to be phasing out free refills as a company policy and going to franchise decided. I work in downtown Chicago and it’s about split 50/50. The McDonald’s and Chic fil a are definitely not free refills just because they are in an area that has a lot of homeless people that sit around the restaurants I think pretty much all of those around here have free refills. Some require you to go up to the counter and ask for it but theyre still free. Might be a franchise thing. I know most McDonalds will post their franchise chain by the doors and pickup windows. If it is not a free standing unit FSU and is part of another building airport Mall popup location it almost certainly wont offer free refills. Even then proximity matters. Touristy areas are less likely to allow refills because they get so much traffic. But no theres no hard rules on this. Most have free refills if you are eating on site. Take out and drive thru no. A few places lock the soda machines because people steal the soda but that depends on the area. I dont think Ive ever been charged for a free refill at a big chain. I feel like Sonic may be the only exception? Not sure. It doesnt matter if its a self service machine or you have to ask at the counter its always been free. I would probably not go back to a place that charged for a soda refill especially not full price. Thats ridiculous. every fast food ive been to has had free refills. sometimes you need to go up and ask for a refill but it was still free Could you be in areas with a sugar tax? Then those areas probably don’t have free refills. I suspect that some restaurants that have problems with teens or vagrants abusing the refills could have a oneanddone policy. Ive just never seen that. 10+ years ago most restaurants had a drink fountain with free soda and tea refills. Ive noticed recently that more and more places that arent chains are moving away from fountain drinks and selling beverages in individual containers glass/plastic bottles and not providing free refills. Id be very surprised to go into a chain fast food place McDonalds Wendys Taco Bell etc. and not find a soda fountain with free refills. Im 50. I havent been to a fast food restaurant that didnt offer free refills since I was ... maybe 13? The only restaurants that dont offer free soda refills are the ones that serve actual bottles or cans. Mom and Pop dont have refills. I dont see much of a pattern. In my area San Gabriel Valley Los Angeles unrestricted refills are everywhere and a cheap place will only allow a single refill. The margin on drinks is incredibly high its almost like the price doesnt matter as the actual soda cost for refill is pennies. So the usual strategy for a business is just to offer the extra soda. Independent lowquality local hamburger stands are most likely to have a no refill policy as they are lowprofit businesses that need to pay attention to every penny and are sensitive to abuse by obnoxious kids or the occasional weirdo that sits for 2 hours and drinks a 2liter bottle worth of soda. Yes! If the drink fountain is where you can fill it yourself typically refills are free. If its behind the counter like some Wendys and ChickfilA youll have to ask and they will tell you if there is a refill charge. For instance there is a Wendys like this in my city where they do charge for refills. Food service standards and laws are usually applied by the County largest standard division of a US state and they can vary. As such there may be a few counties that have made it against health code to reuse the same cup and I have experienced where refills were free during the visit and the staff would give out a fresh cup. During COVID it was like this everywhere. I believe it is up to the franchise operator. It changes based on the owners. A lot of those places are franchised so they each have different owners even if they provide the same product. That can result in different quality and product offerings like free refills How much soda are you drinking that this is an issue? If you go in and there are soda dispensers outside the counter then it’s free refills. If you don’t see any soda dispensers outside the counter then it’s probably not free refills At least I would assume they wouldn’t do free refills if they had the soda dispensers behind the counter We have a McDonalds inside a local mall that stopped doing free refills after too many teens abused it. But that’s the only exception I can think of. Yes. They either chose to or not to offer free refills. 99.999999% offer them. What a ridiculous question Anywhere that has a soda machine has free refills usually. I’ve never been to a fast food place that didn’t offer free refills granted I tend to go to places like Whataburger and chickfila not McDonald’s and Taco Bell. In NC refills are free everywhere. When I did a sales job with some kids from California we all met in Texas and they were mind blown that refills were free. They said they’d never been somewhere in California that did free refills. Only in restaurants near homeless encampments The only fast food place Ive seen charging for refills was a local old fashioned fast food place that was circling the drain. Still kinda miss it though the food was honestly pretty low quality and yet if you had a hankering for it nothing else was going to suffice. Randomly one will not. One out of every 30 or 40 ive been to. I think its 100% because of the locality iow the people who live wherever it is are criminals or assholes or the owner of the place is one. So that being the case theres no real way to tell I dont think Ive been to a fast food joint that didnt have them in my 38 years A standalone mcdonalds cost like 25 cents for a redill like 20 years ago but I think it was the owners decision. Otherwise only fast food Ive seen it is at mall food courts. Usually 50 cents a refill. Probably to prohibit more refills if you shop all day. If you are *in* the USA odds are the fast food place has free refills. Im 38 and have literally never been to a fast food place that didnt. If there is a soda fountain facing the customers that is not easy for the workers to get to from behind their counter then refills are free and there is a 95% chance you are in a fast food place. They basically all do even if they arent self service theyll generally refill them if you ask at the counter. I dont believe I have ever encountered a fast food restaurant that doesnt have free refills. And many nonfast food restaurants do as well. Many fast food places are removing the serve your own soda option entirely McDonalds will remove all self serve dining machines by 2032 The reason being is that a lot of Fast Food chains want to phase out the dine in option all together or at the very least...make the dine in area very small I think in the next 1015 years you will see more and more drive through only options for fast food / or have a small inside area for picking up online orders I went into a relatively new Chick Fil A the other day and the inside was tiny...like room for maybe tables But there are 2 drive through lanes and a nice standing area for picking up orders inside That is where fast food is headed I always just assumed that if the soda fountain is available for self service than you can have free refills. I have never encountered one that did not have free refills. In fact the only restaurants I have encountered that did not have free refills were those that served canned or bottled sodas rather than fountain ones. The only places Ive seen not have free refills are asian places that only serve coke in cans If the fountain machine is self service you can typically assume that there are free refills. If its behind the counter refills may still be free but they may not. That said its hard to find a place that doesnt have free refills in my experience You can still get free refills just pester them until they give you one. If everyone starts doing it they will put the machines back. Depends on if the soda is filled behind the counter by employees or if an employee hands you a cup and tells you the machine to fill from is over there. The only places Ive ever seen that dont allow refills are in HCOL areas and major cities. When I was in New Jersey for a music festival in Asbury Park there were no free refills as well as on a trip to Boston. If you are able to fill your own beverage they have free refills Ive never seen one without free refills! Ive never seen a fast food place without free refills. Almost all do. I grew up in NYC where free refills for nonfast food places were incredibly rare to the extent that I was incredibly uncomfortable taking a refill when offered when I moved away for college for months and even then most fast food places had free refills unless they had a sign or the drink fountain was behind the counter. They all provide free refills... Some of them make you ask a cashier to get one as a means of preventing people from ordering water and getting lemonade instead instead of putting the drink machine out in the customer area. Whether refills are free or not is most likely up to the franchisee that particular locations owner and not Mcdonalds itself. I don’t know of a way to know beforehand unfortunately besides reviews. I don’t tend to eat at fast food places to really care if they have free refills. Fast food places are generally franchises. That means the brand isn’t actually running the restaurant. They’re operated by independent managers and basically license the brand’s food and equipment. It may be up to individual franchisees to make decisions like free refills. Its determined by the owner of the franchise there is no hard and fast rule. Taco Bell started the whole free refill craze to boost brand awareness for them and Pepsi. I would be very surprised if that is not written into the franchise agreement to this day. With that said for the most part as others have said here in this thread most fast food restaurants are franchises and that decision is usually left up to the franchise owner. In my experience as far as national brands Burger King is the only one I have seen not offer free refills with any regularity. I know Ive been to a few of their restaurants that didnt offer them. Post 72 Does bar trivia where you live focus more on general knowledge or local knowledge? My wife and I have done some trivia outings with our American friends. We live in an area with a big expat and transplant population so trivia mostly has been about world knowledge science etc. We visited some friends in the South and there was trivia night at a restaurant. Most of the questions were about local subjects like who was the first president of a nearby university not a prestigious/famous one the countys biggest employer what is neighboring towns motto etc. Is the first or second more common where you live? I thought the latter was a fun way to learn about a local area but some people participating were transplants from DC and thought it was unfair which I could understand too with entry fee/prizes. American in the south I dont think Ive ever encountered a local subject based trivia night and Ive wandered in to a lot of random trivia nights in my life. I could maybe see it if they were doing it as a pregame type of thing in or nearby a city with like a heavy college football program or something? Then they might do a slightly more local university/football players past and present/coaches/misc sports type stuff but I think itd be clearly labeled as such on social media signage etc. But I havent seen even that in Knoxville TN or Columbus OH which are two huge college football fandoms. I host a trivia night in the south and while almost all of our categories are general knowledge New Orleans is an old interesting city so there will be categories about local topics every now and then. We try to put context clues in our questions so you can still work it out even if you don’t just know the answer off the top of your head. We also don’t host in a bar frequented by tourists so every team has at least one or two locals on it that would know the answers. General. It’s mostly Sporcle in my experience. That depends on the bar. Idk why you’d think every trivia place has the same questions in a city. Usually there are themes with each round. Idk how anyone can create weekly trivia based on 1 area It’s a mix. Usually it’s general knowledge or pop culture and the local stuff is around current events or local quirky and fun facts I have done quite a bit of bar trivia nights and have never been to one like you described... I honestly would find it rather bizarre and a fair bit annoying to have a trivia night that was just obscure local trivia lol General knowledge. Im a Trivia host. Closest we get to local stuff typically is state level. Depends on the setting and the crowd. When I was in college my roommates and I went to a local bar for trivia it was usually pop culture items with a few questions related to the college and the local area. [deleted] Well I havent done it in 20 years but back then it was exactly the same at every place. General stuff. General knowledge Usually pop culture First is more common. Local knowledge would be weird. I was a professional trivia host for twelve years stopped because of covid. I wrote 5 themed rounds 50 questions a day 4 days per week every week of the year. In one night I could swing from River Cities of the World to Local Ghost Stories to When Animals Attack Celebrities. Local topics were common. Most of my players were local after all. But I would usually keep that to one round per night. The only thing I completely stayed away from was sports my crowd came to me in part because they didnt want to do sports trivia and its not easy to find nights they dont do that in a southeastern college town. The bar trivia I go to is music specific. General American pop cultural knowledge is a mainstay at my bar the themes are always roughly as follows 1. American Movies/Cinema especially awards 2. Geography 3. Name the Year 4. TV Show of the Week rotates and show is announced at beginning of the round 5. Toys Games and Inventions 6. Sports There’s another six questions that vary in subject but all generally run peripheral to the above In my experience the bar trivia in SoCal is general knowledge. Might as well open the trivia pursuit cards A what? Trivia night? Is this a thing? I’ve only done it in Minneapolis but it was pretty much entirely general knowledge. I got all the pop culture questions the guy friend I went with got the sports ones and usually more of the current events ones. The ones I have been to have not been locally focused at all. Usually its a mix of general sports entertainment literature US and World history and news. I think there are sometimes local questions but not the norm at all that I have noticed. I go to one run by Geeks Who Drink theyre a national company so I believe the questions are the same throughout the USA A friend of mine runs a couple bar trivia games. While he doesn’t explicitly do local trivia he does tend to tailor his questions to what locals tend to know. He rarely asks sports questions that don’t have a local angle since his audience doesn’t know much about sports outside our city. He also learns his music trivia towards stuff that gets local air play. But mostly he just knows his crowd at each bar and aims for some questions everyone will know some that will split the crowd and some that only a few people will know. I play test a lot of questions even though I’m not really his typical player. Seattle here. Ive only been to one or two but they were a mix leaning towards general knowledge. Seattle is a city of transplants so I imagine the local questions are supposed to be the hard ones... but theyre the only ones I get which is tragic considering theres only 1 or 2 for every 10. Im a pretty active trivia player idk if there are any other learnedleaguers in this sub? and have been to lots of pub trivia events. Ive never seen this sort of thing its always general knowledge. I used to do trivia just outside Boston by Tufts. A few of the places that did custom trivia were brutal and absolutely not local or following any discernable trend. Ive also been to a few that used a proprietary system with preset questions that were more at a national level so somewhat US centered. Think Jeopardy! Otherwise the only time I recall hyper local trivia nights were either at a college and themed as about that college or themed to a local holiday Opening Monday trivia night was about Red Sox and the Boston Marathon. General trivia but local knowledge of Boston comes up frequently mostly about sports or local legend Donna Summers A bar Ive been to a few times seems to have a recurring Tuesday night Twilight thing going. Ive played all through Colorado. Its usually general knowledge across the board with the occasional local trivia question thrown in. The one I currently go to weekly is 4 rounds first round multiple choice second round random themed third round general knowledge but you wager 15 points on how confident you are and you lose points if you are wrong and final round usually an audio round. Dont know a hard sports question? Might be a good guess to pick a local team or player. Wouldnt hurt to know a few local facts and/or alcohol facts being in a bar. My sister runs one in her town in Northeast Colorado I often toss her pop culture and food based questions. I hope to visit soon when I get some time off and dominate her circuit. I’ve been doing bar trivia every week with off nights here or there for like 5 years and I’ve never heard a local question… ever. It’s all general knowledge. General. I’ve been to a lot of trivia nights and never seen a question about local culture. Categories are always very general. An example would be like 90s pop quick math geography Harry Potter and Heisman Trophy winners. Regular bar night general knowledge. Occasionally youll see a sports music or film focus but not hyper local. Charity events can get more focused. I went to a Royals Charities fundraiser a few years ago that was TOUGH baseball trivia all about the team through the years. If you didnt have somebody at your table who could fully nerd out on 1970s Royals you were hosed. The person who runs it generally just asks about anything they want. Usually not specific to a locality but if they found some fun fact I could see them working it in. Ive only been to one trivia night so far but I dont think there were any questions that were focused on local knowledge. First one but in my experience the hosts dont even write the questions anymore. They just pull from of the various quiz services. Atlantean here. Ive encountered some city level trivia but its mostly about well known things Gone with the Wind Sports Teams Original Name of city Terminus. Not completely happy with our current trivia outing as its 75% Songs/TV/Movies. Would rather appreciate history/mythology/world/geography/science/math/culture type questions. Did trivia on holiday in Germany there were a lot of local questions surprisingly we did the best on the world history/geography portion as the only tourists in the bar. General Knowledge. Americans often don’t live where they grew up. And we move around a lot. There will still be geography based questions but they will be more the type of thing that every American should know no matter where you are from. Like what state was the Erie Canal in New York or what river starts near Pittsburgh PA and ends near Cairo IL The Ohio River. Theyre usually on general pop culture unless specified otherwise. You probably wont need to know how the last high school baseball gsme went for the Bumblefuck Wildcats vs the Cleveland Steamers. All trivia Ive gone to has been general knowledge General stuff. The place Im used to had a local topic for the final question worth extra points for a while but ended up replacing it with a general knowledge question. I think they ran out of interesting local trivia. It was sort of a local vs outsider thing but not really meanspirited. Mostly general knowledge but occasionally Ive had sections that are local focused For example there was a trivia night with 5 sections of 5 questions each one of the sections was Kansas City focused asking where the Chiefs came from what hockey team was in KC what makes The Roasterie coffee unique etc General knowledge. Your submission has been automatically removed due to the following reasons Questions about breaking news or current events should be asked in other subreddits such as /r/news. The moderators may choose to create a megathread about ongoing events if it is warranted. If you believe this is a mistake please contact the moderation team. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Local subjects are used in bars to promote a townie culture. Youre meant to feel unwelcome. Its a tool. Post 73 Why is noir genre and settings spiritually tied to Los Angeles? I find it odd that a genre that is steeped in mystery shadowy and gloomy atmosphere is often tied to sunny and sprawling Los Angeles which is the total opposite of what constitutes mysterious shadowy and gloomy environment. Why is this? Part of the noir ethos is that the world is much darker than it seems at first glance. I love LA but its hard to deny that it epitomizes darker than it seems at first glance. LA is a very classic setting for it but so is NYC SF and other major cities. I dont think its particularly to LA. Because Raymond Chandler mostly invented the Hard Boiled Detective genre and set his Philip Marlowe stories in Los Angeles. Raymond Chandler was an Angeleno who wrote a lot of noir fiction set in Los Angeles The Big Sleep The Lady in the Lake etc. and a lot of his books are now considered classics. So he may be bumping the numbers up for LA. He also helped write some pretty famous noir screenplays like Double Indemnity. Other writers often set their stories elsewhere though. The Maltese Falcon is set in San Francisco. The Thin Man is set in NYC. Is that true? Im not sure thats really accurate. I think New York and Chicago are equally prominent in the genre. If you’re specifically asking about film noir I have to imagine it’s because a lot of it was filmed there I think theres a sort of subgenre of Noir that intersects with the aesthetics of the golden and silver ages of Hollywood sometimes because thats when and where it was actually filmed so those stories will obviously be in or near LA. But more broadly it fits in with any major city A theme in noir is institutional corruption and holy jeebus was Los Angeles *corrupt* during the 1930s the popular era to set noir in. The greatest noir writer of all time Raymond Chandler set his stories in L.A. and that had a big impact on the genre. He is to noir crime fiction what Tolkien is to epic fantasy. I feel like they’re more often associated with NYC there’s just the one game called LA noir lol LA New York and Chicago are prime destinations because noir is essentially an urban genre in the traditional format and these are America’s biggest cities historically. L.A. happened to have a lot of the first Noir pulp writers setting stories there. But L.A. also has a lot of the essential ingredients of noir built into itself nicely. Steep class disparity dramatics in the upper crust elite a long history of complex organized crime politics a famously corrupt police force with multiple active deputy gangs at any given time iconic and rich visuals most Americans would recognize from film considered traditionally to be a bit more *loose* than the east coast. If you look past the weather the town is ripe with moneyed drama and desperate dames trying to find out how to crack it perfect for a private investigator to get over his head in style Budget. LA is right there. Don’t have to travel somewhere to shoot. Is it? I always think of noir as being in San Francisco since that is where Sam Spade and by extension a lot of the radio detectives of the 30s live. LA has Chinatown but that came quite a bit later. Well the obvious answer is because thats where the film industry is based and a lot of movies that just have to take place in a city end up taking place in LA for logistical reasons. This was especially true during the heyday of film noir. I think its just a big city thing more so than an LA thing but probably all the old timey ones used LA since the writers were from that area. Id say its more tied to Chicago or NYC I think of Chicago or New York not Los Angeles. LA Confidential is actually a perfect example of this. The disillusionment of what Los Angeles really can be Police in LA were incredibly corrupt in the 20s50s there was some reform but we’re back at it in the modern day to the point that KKK card carrying members who are tatted up in KKK symbols are serving on the force and in the open. Location weather and setting doesn’t define noir genre. Just the darkness of the soul and themes. There are a few noir movies set in Los Angeles but I certainly wouldnt say theyre spiritually tied to that city more than any other. I dont think this assessment is true. Tons of examples of this in NY San Francisco Chicago through the years. Could this perception be tied to the video game L.A. Noire? I think New York Chicago and a few European cities like Paris get featured in Noir but Hollywood is in L.A. When I think film noir I think of New York. It’s where they made the films. And it’s not sunny at night Because the major writers who worked in that genre also worked in hollywood and so they were based in LA. When the stories were invited morphine was still very popular and legal the short answer is vampires the masquarade bloodlines but the longer answer is that it isnt youre just having your perception warped by vtmb What are some classic noir films outside of the USA? My go to is The Third Man from Vienna Austria. LA can actually get quite gloomy. Look up marine layer may gray/jume gloom DTLA is eerie at night due its desolation and has a very distinct vibe think Drive or Collateral And LA was a slightly different beast 100 years ago with conditions ripe for those types of stories as well as novelists like Chandler and others leaving a distinct mark on the genre. LA has always had deep dark corners and crevasses beneath the gilded surface and is where movies were historically shot. Noirs more of a mood. *Hollywood* noir movies even the niche productions tend unsurprisingly to stay near Los Angeles. Noir is typically not always set against a gritty urban backdrop of corruption decadence or high society. Any major city will do but popular ones are LA San Francisco Chicago and New York Boston too for the Lehane fans. LA hits because it has a reputation for glitz Hollywood but also of drugs power brokering and a seamy underbelly of intrigue that is brooding and dark when you pull back the curtain. LA noir is almost a genre in and of itself. I think LA was interesting at the time because it was so new. New York and Chicago had established power structures and as interesting as the mob and related rotten institutions were they were familiar. LA had new institutions arising and the city itself was growing so fast. It attracted low people who were on the outs elsewhere still does and people in power were new types people in media or people figuring out how to make money from empty land. LA was rotten because it was new. Cause L.A fits that genre and was created around that city around the time of I think the roaring 20s. The Maltese Falcon was set in San Francisco. Because film noir is just german expressionism films mixed with plots from raymond chandler/dashiell hammett and they set a lot of their stories there. Los Angeles because of Raymond Chandler but any city can be made noir. Body Heat was in a generic Florida beach town not in Miami. You’re right. From here on out I think detective novels should only be set in the FOGGIEST places in the country. Gumshoes stalking the hard streets of *checks map* Point Reyes California and Cape Disappointment Washington I usually associate it with places like new york and Michigan because of the accents. Some of it has to do with the German expressionist filmakers that came in the 1930s fleeing the Nazis. A large part was the rampant corruption within the city especially the LAPD pay for a position firebombing critics and more that coupled with The Depression and WWII created a great sense of cynicism and despair. All set in one of the most beautiful backdrops you can imagine. If you havent been to L.A. you dont know how noir we are. Nights can be wild. Lots of neon. Crime has always been around. Police have always been corrupt. And yes the writers producers and studios were here and that makes it a lot easier to set the movies here. Well for one California is known for having alot of cults and weird killings of those such also the black dahlia happened there in the early 1900s when Hollywood was about to take off I think the people who mention Raymond Chandler are partially right. But dont forget that he wasnt the only major detective writer who placed his stories in California. Dashiell Hammett The Maltese Falcon placed his stories in San Francisco. Ross MacDonald put Lew Archer in Santa Teresa Ventura/Santa Barbara. That said if you read prewar pulp fiction plenty of stories take place in other cities. The thing that really connected noir to LA is that it was popular during the golden age of Hollywood when the majority of movies were filmed in southern California. If the movie industry had settled somewhere else then we would probably associate noir with that place. A common noir theme is deception. Characters are always falling for illusions and betraying each other. Where better to explore that theme than Los Angeles the home of Hollywood? Here is my favorite story opening from Red Wind by Raymond Chandler. It is a weather description that isnt gloomy but captures the noir feeling. *There was a desert wind blowing that night. It was one of those hot dry Santa Anas that come down through the mountain passes and curl your hair and make your nerves jump and your skin itch. On nights like that every booze party ends in a fight. Meek little wives feel the edge of the carving knife and study their husbands’ necks. Anything can happen. You can even get a full glass of beer at a cocktail lounge.* Funny I think of LA as characterless and smog ridden. I suppose I am probably wrong about that but that is just what descriptions I heard made it seem like. When I think of Noir I think of New York Is it? I always associate it with NYC. Because that’s where Hollywood and the back lots are. I always thought it was more so London and Chicago? As others have said Noir is definately not just tied to LA and other cities show up very frequently in the genre specifically Chicago NYC San Fran. Also as others have said LA is right there where movies are made so its easy to make movies there but thats not it. LA in the 1940s1950s was basically a boom town and the shining example of the new modern American city. It isnt a picture of dirty alleyways slums and towering skyscrapers in the cold and damp that you get with old US cities like NY or Chicago. LA was sleek sunny modern sprawling. It was progress and optimism itself so you get to juxtopose that with the inherenty dark seedy subversive plots on Noir films. The shiny city on the hill vs the dark underbelly. It makes for good narrative. I would say more so NYC and Chicago than LA Its not. Noire film is because early Hollywood made movies during peak noire. If there was one city tied to noire its probably NYC. Post 74 What are some real life examples of the stereotypical rural small town America that they show in movies and TV shows? Movies and TV shows love to depict rural small town America with the old time town square that looks like it is right out of the 1950s. What are some real life examples of the towns depicted in movies like the Kaitlyn Dever movie No One Will Save You? These are some of the stereotypical movie and TV shows style small towns I can think of Pella Iowa Punxsutawney Pennsylvania Burlington Vermont Orange City Iowa Sandpoint Idaho Kennebunkport Maine Coeur dAlene Idaho Bar Harbor Maine Jackson Wyoming Exeter New Hampshire Portsmouth New Hampshire Lincoln New Hampshire Whitefish Montana Fredericksburg Texas Telluride Colorado What other towns would fit that movie and TV show rural small town America stereotype? Im a little confused by your question. Are you just looking for productions set in small towns? Because the vast majority of them do a terrible job actually depicting life in small towns the stereotypes they represent are just a series of lazy tropes. Or are you looking for a list of small towns like you see in Rockwell paintings? Because there are hundreds of them probably thousands. *Napoleon Dynamite* actually shows small town life so Preston Idaho is my example for you. None of those are truly small towns Just about any smaller town in Texas still has the central courthouse. Jacksboro Granbury Palo Pinto are just a few of those. Weatherford also has central courthouse but instead of a square where the roads go in straight lines around it it sits in the middle of a roundabout. As a mainer I would not classify Bar Harbor as rural small town. Most of these are not small towns. Most real small towns will never be depicted in movies because people have never heard of them. I would think a real small town wouldnt have a town square. Like the town I grew up in. ~1200 people. We didnt have sidewalks or our own school. If a train came when you were running late you were screwed. It was a big deal when they put in the second stoplight. My town would. No stop lights only stop signs. Festivals for Independence Day and Christmas. The only chain type store we have is the dollar store. The gas station also makes sandwiches. The same woman owns the only restaurant and bakery. We have a deli that also does pizza. Floral shop is owned by a previous mayor. Really big into the football program. Get into the rural areas of the South the towns have that look though many of them are run down due to the economic bust in the early 90s. If you don’t live there but you know about them they probably don’t count. There are tens of thousands of small towns people don’t know about unless they live there or drive through for some odd reason The list is endless. My home town of Vernonia Oregon. Fredericksburg TX is a tourist town and most of the houses in the area are Air B&ampBs. Telluride is NOT small town Colorado. That is a rich ski town where people now have to pay to get to their own house. A better example for Colorado would be places out on our eastern/ north eastern plains I think somewhere like the town of Brush or maybe Sterling would be better representation of small rural towns. There are a *lot* of small New England towns that fit. Id call out Woodstock Vermont but that been consciously preserved. Jackson is far from a stereotypical small town unfortunately Ah yes jackson where the multi millionaires are considered poor a typical small town. Nothing stereotypical about Telluride. Its an ultra wealthy area Nelsonville Ohio has a town square like youre describing. I’m thinking Mystic Pizza Mystic CT is very much a quaint New England town. Most of the real life small towns like the ones in the movies arent as nice as they are portrayed in the movies. They are usually very poor towns and typically not very nice looking. Any small town that is nice usually grows to become a bigger town quickly so they dont stay small very long. The ones that stay small stay like that because they arent nice enough for people to want to move there. Keene NH has like 23k people but it has a really cute downtown complete with a very New England big white church overlooking the gazebo in the town center square Lots of small time shops and restaurants line the street leading up to it They used to throw a huge pumpkin festival…until the riot Most of those are tourist towns not typical small town America. Literally hundreds if not thousands of towns exist like what you’re describing. Unfortunately most have largely emptied out as its people started shopping at big chains or people just left the town in general. Off the top of my head several college towns like this exist Knoxville and Athens come to mind. Mountain towns like this include like you said Telluride Breckenridge and several others. SmithsburgMD Waynesboro PA Saugerties NY Those are more quaint tourist towns than typical rural small town America. Based on your example Williamstown MA or Fairhope AL or Sackets Harbor NY True rural towns are more single large employer factory towns or family farming communities. Monticello MS Bogalusa LA Deferiet NY Altmar NY Redfield NY Demopolis AL. Those are typical rural America towns stonington illinois. the closest i know of and been almost yearly. was about 800 ppl living supposedly in 2023. i used too young to remember so about 20 years ago to live in dawson ill i was told that my teachers laughed at how i drew it as a ghost town like wild west style Grew up next to Hermann MO. Very picturesque but with the steady stream of tourism from the local wineries/distilleries/breweries/meaderies it’s not really a ‘small town’ as much as it *was* a small town that is now mostly tourist hub with a few people that live year round surrounded by empty AirBnBs. Wellsboro Pennsylvania I lived in rural iowa. Population 200. 30 miles to the next town which was 20000. Ive seen things man Ive seen things. Jackson Georgia has a town square like youve described. It looks so classically small town and nostalgic that they use it as the location for the fictional small town of Hawkins Indiana in Stranger Things which is set in the 1980s. My hometown of Victor Montana has a population of 900. We don’t have a town square but we have Main Street. What about Mt Pilot NC? Yes I’m an Andy Griffith fan. Just about every state Ive been in has a ~~few~~ bunch of them. Last week I drove through both Monetta and Saluda SC. They both had a very small but active town center. I was on my way to Pomaria SC which was about 3 blocks in size had 1 gas station and another business and that was it. I was traveling US17alt in Jamestown SC today. It has a gas station 2 churches and a liquor store plus a few ruins. Continuing on towards Georgetown SC I found it has a section that looks old and a section that looks new and is much larger Most US towns that predate the 1950s have a part of them that looks that old. If you needed to film you could find just the spot. Thinking back to my OTR trucking days traveling along US highways instead of Interstates gets you dozens of small towns that can fit the description. Covington Ga Mt Airy NC I wont mention it by name but Im from an Illinois town with a population of about 200 people. Most people who live in the same county dont even realize it exists. And it was a huge deal when it got its first stoplight about 15 years ago. Now thats a small town. Pikeville Tn. https//youtu.be/hUyV53wu3zM?si=WqbyuceO6zTPLrj Downtown looks like a hallmark movie. They also have a huge Christmas parade and show. If you like Steel Magnolias” there is a Piggly Wiggly” in town. Exeter NH is home to one of the most prestigous boarding schools in America. Phillips Exeter with Alumni going back to the 1700s A Seperate Peace is set upon its campus Portsmouth NH has more restuarant seats than people. fact Lincoln NH is a McDonalds and the entrance to the Kancamangus. I think you are looking for Keene NH which is or was at one time the widest Main St. in America. It is where the bicycle rider is peddaling through in the original Jumanji movie. I’ll address the towns on the list that I lived in or near Kennebunkport Me. With 3600 year round residents size wise it should be a small town but with the tourism and the Bush family compound it doesn’t have a small town feel. Bar Harbor Me. With just over 5000 year round residents to me it has just edged out of the small town category especially with it being such a tourist destination. Portsmouth NH with 22000 residents an active military base and a former military base as a regional airport is not a small town and hasn’t felt like one in many years. It’s a small city. These are all nice places and I like them and wouldn’t mind living near them again. Small town America as portrayed in popular media is vanishingly rare. Towns you’ve never heard of like Blairsville Georgia Deep Gap NC. South Paris Maine or Des Allemands Louisiana would be small towns I’d list for small town America. Montana Whitefish Lewistown Stevensville Kalispell. Bozeman Helena Missoula and Billings also have a central town square as well but theyre definitely not small towns. Floyd Virginia and Bristol Virginia fit the bill. Elkins West Virginia. Somerset Kentucky. Also Covington Frankfort and Elizabethtown to name a few we have plenty back home. Milton WV. Your use of small town is throwing people because those arent small enough tonreally be what rural Americans call a small town. But to address your point the closest one like that near me would be Manchester MI. Population is about 2000. For comparison Punxsutawney has a population of about 8000. Each year they have their World Famous Chicken Broil they have a small town square. Kids play community baseball. Lots of folks with farms nearby. My sister has a horse and goat farm there. There are literally thousands of small cities like this in the US. Is this where I go to find that pin where someone was talking about their town of 200 people” … and the other person in the convo said You lived in a village. You’re a villager …”? There are lots of smaller towns along the Pacific Coast Scenic Byway in Washington state Highway 101. They don’t have court houses and may have a small post office their big” business for the town. There’s sometimes a small cafe old gas station that’s been closed for decades makes good vintage photos and some type of hardware store. The hardware is so that people don’t have to drive an hour or more to get to a big box store to get needed stuff. The town may have a cstore too. All of these are located in fairly old buildings. Many of the latter towns are sadly full of closed businesses. Aberdeen because they relied on logging has gone through major economic hardships. At the time 1980’s because it still is a dangerous job people were paid a decent living wage. Today the industry doesn’t pay as well and including in mills many processes have been automated. In towns like these there are many closed stores including lumber yards stores. All of them are older buildings. You can tell the town was once thriving. Outside of these small towns are spectacular old barns and fencing. The greening of the field during our spring is amazing. I wrote this based more on what may be visually interesting for television or the movies. Dirt Rooster 628 located in the SE has a bee keeper YouTube channel. After his bee videos he often films these old towns. His B roll is spectacular too. Genesee idaho is the tiny town vibe youre looking for notice you havent heard of it? Youre talking about Joyce Washington Joseph Utah see a theme? Small town or village there’s only 190 residents where I live but we got a DG market now haha no more traveling 25 miles to buy milk Fredericksburg proper is a tourist town. go ahead and add Grants New Mexico to that list. 9000 people one highschool one middle school one walmart one smiths a mcdonald’s and a sonic. Google Earth is your friend here. Pick a mediumsized city then zoom in and away from it. Select an isolated town choose street view” and you have your answer. Western Pennsylvania Vermont Central New York West Texas…you’ll see all types. If you can think of them they arent actually small rural towns. You need to find a town where the only local public service is the municipal liquor store the only groceries are at the bait shop and the only eating out is the Friday church spaghetti feed. The city of Orange in Southern California has a couple of businesses that kept their vintage signs so its been used a few times in movies. https//images.squarespacecdn.com/content/v1/61f9f5824087542a39e9c634/78ff1b9b8b2a45529887d5a9a3b7f123/oldtowneorange.jpg?format=1000w https//daytrippen.com/wpcontent/uploads/2016/03/historicoldtowneorange.jpg Of the three NH towns you listed Id only consider Lincoln an actual small town. The other two are pretty big and bougie. A TV/movie small town seems to be a weird frankenstein of small town culture of everyoneknowseveryonesbusiness small enough to bike and walk everywhere but big enough to have a bunch of businesses some of which open with late hours and if this show takes place in the 80s or 90s an enclosed mall that would otherwise be in a major city or at least a major citys suburb. As puts it small town is more of a feel than an objective thing. Lots of people from suburban towns in major 1000000+ metros say their suburb is a small town or is like a small town even though they could catch NBA games or fly internationally within a 30 minute drive. Statesville NC I grew up in a city with no street lights or stop lights back then does that count. The city is so small all the kids go to the same school 🤣 My town was so small we didn’t have stoplights. We had a gas station liquor store bank and post office. True small towns you wont be able to name. If the town is well known its not what youre looking for. The small town I’m from has a post officethree churches Dollar General hardware store and a drug store. It’s 15 minutes in either direction to the nearest gas station. Arlen Texas. My hometown Monticello IL. It is a town of about 6000 in the heart of rural central Illinois. It is picturesque with a town square full of shops and restaurants surrounding the county courthouse. It has a railway museum and a local theater group. It benefitted from being the home of a patent medicine company in the 1800s and the county home of a Chicago millionaire so it features a street of stately homes colloquially called millionaires row and a Georgian mansion and formal sculpture gardens just outside of town. https//allerton.illinois.edu/ MacArthur OH Albany OH They use Nyack NY for tons of small town shows. There is a gas station on Rt 9w in Nyack that is constantly used in TV shows and movies. You would have to go back at least 35 years for Jackson Wy. Its a playground for the 1%. Millionaires cant even afford to live there anymore. Lander is closer. Any city west of the Mississippi river that is 50+miles away from the nearest interstate. there are those east of the river too but its more difficult to get far from the highway For a true small town look up Monowi Nebraska For a Midwestern town in the center of it all Lebanon Kansas is the spot Littleton New Hampshire The Milagro Beanfield war Truchas Espanola and Chimayo New Mexico naturally the small town stereotype is a bit different in NM Vs the rest of the country The depiction of Preston Idaho in Napoleon Dynamite is widely seen to be accurate by people who grew up in the rural PNW. Everything from the vintage/outdated buildings the presence of 4H at local high schools etc. I’m surprised by your list. Especially Pella Iowa. I always consider Pella more of a company town not a small town. Similar to Mars Iowa. The towns I would consider small would be Amelia Courthouse Salters SC or Sparta GA. I have family in all of those towns. I have to use the next biggest town to describe where I am going and people still wouldn’t understand how small or rural these towns actually are. The nearest town to me has one of these town squares. I live out in bumfuck S Indiana. The nearest town is about 5000 people and has a Walmart. For the people who define towns differently Under 25k is a small town the way I define towns. So everything from 50025k is a small town. Under 500 is a gas station and some people and maybe a post office with a subway attached. Maybe. OP some people will romanticize rural living or small town living but for young people its often painfully boring and for adults its a nice quiet life if you can handle not having immediate access to amenities and dont get squeamish about stuff like bugs mice deer etc. Theres nothing wrong with it its just a different lifestyle and it fits some better than others. New Wilmington PA. Ohio has at least one per county sometimes multiple unless its an area dominated by a major city. The main one where I live is Warren. East Haddam CT is where Gilmore Girls intro is and Stars Hollow is a combo of a lot of small Connecticut towns including East Haddam. I lived there growing up also Old Saybrook CT more of a beach village/town. Woodstock VT is a better example of a picturesque village in Vermont you would see in movies. A Hallmark movie was filmed there actually. Kennebunkport is too busy to meet your movie idealization. Bar harbor works though. If you want another Maine example look to Paris Camden Bristol Wiscasset and lots of other towns north of Bath on the coast. Jackson is full of billionaires. Whitefish is close. Telluride certainly. CdA and maybe Sandpoint is pretty affluent though not as much. Basically its rural but not typical. Coeur dAlene Idaho Isnt this just about the most racist place in the country and just south of crazy people central? East Jewett NY. Population about 200. There are more cows than people. They had a post office until 15 years ago. When I was a kid there was also a small general store. It closed at least 30 years ago. There are fridges in small buildings in front of farms with eggs milk cheese butter meat jam honey syrup veggies etc whatever they make there...its on the honor system you pay for what you take. Its really kind of cool. Its like going back to the 1930s. Friday Night Lights really does perfectly show a small town Texas that revolves around the football team. Fantastic show as well. Crescent city California. the redwoods added to the tiny town definitely makes it seem like a town you’d see in TV or a movie. Wethersfield CT. A lot of Hallmark Christmas movies are filmed there. Stockbridge and Lee Massachusetts. They used Woodstock Illinois to stand in for Punxsutawney so I guess that would work. Illinois has a million of them though. Harvard Arcola Washington Eureka Monticello Hebron Olney... Appearancewise Cohasset in MA fits the bill. Its an archetypal New England town. The green in Guilford CT looks fairly identical to Stars Hollow from the Gilmore Girls. Kentucky is full of small towns with old time squares. Bardstown and Hodgenville... Elizabethtown has the old time square but is growing at a crazy rate. Eureka IL Napoleon Dynamite did a pretty good job of capturing very small town America aesthetic. Dont forget Cicely Alaska. Usually small towns on TV and movies are more educated more liberal more affluent than most small towns in America. What you usually want is a college town like Middlebury Vermont or Athens Georgia. Mayberry NC is more like the real thing although the TV show came out in the 60s and Mayberry is more 1930s small town. Green Acres The small towns in the movies are from back when there were lots of local and family businesses that employed the citizens. Since 1985 or so theyve been disappearing because now everything is corporate based and only has jobs for folks who move to large cities. My town was 10000 people with somewhere near 80 local businesses in the downtown when I graduated high school in 1979. Now its 2500 people with only 2 restaurants left from the former businesses most residents living at or near the poverty line with the county having the highest per capita rate of opioid addiction in the US. Small towns went extinct 40 years ago. Sandpoint isnt really that small any more. It felt that way back in the 90s but then someone apparently told the entire state of California about it. Go half an hour around the lake and visit Clark Fork if you want to see a small town. Small towns and The villages are everywhere. I spent my youth in the 50s and the 60 s in the perfect village in New Hampshire still pretty sleepy When I think of small towns the first one that comes to mind is Austin NV 47 people and only had a bunch of stop signs since most of the main roads open up to US route 50. Old brick buildings a castle 8 hotel rooms and mining history I think it fits the bill. Glenwood NM also fits this category as well as Mogollon NM and Greenwater Wa Fredericksburg?... Its a WELL KNOWN Tourist town thats under 50 miles from the Suburb areas of San Antonio and under 100 from Austin It doesnt exactly scream small town. Its cool for sure but not small town. For a Texas small town look at a placed called Blanket. Population 369 and the only reason I know about it is my Dog was born on a Ranch out there. The Straight Story Cold Turkey Preston ID as depicted in Jared and Jerusha Hess’ tour de force *Napoleon Dynamite* is the best film depiction of rural America. Mr. airy NC the real life inspiration for Mayberry Where I live every little town looks like it came out of a movie. A lot of these are not small towns or at least are not small anymore. Coeur d’Alene props on the spelling btw is a huge lake city that is quite congested during the summer. Whitefish MT and Sandpoint ID are small but are not really that small town rural setting you want. The only cities off the old highway system are where the real small towns are. Towns with only one main road and brick buildings built in the 30’s. There are many many towns that fit this description. One near me was Colfax WA. It’s predominantly a farming town with a population of only like a couple thousand. For reference Coeur d’Alene has 56000 and that estimate is likely low since there are a lot of summer homes there. Rockville Indiana Pontiac Illinois I dont know if Im truly answering your question but Cass City Michigan is great rural small city. My grandparents retired there its a retirement and farming city in the thumb. Theres a single family run grocery store with a hitching post for Amish buggies because theres an Amish community a single gas station where the owner has the farmers credit card in a trading card binder because they only use their credit card to buy gas for their car and tractor the McDonalds is a community hangout because its the only place thats open before 9AM theres a single screen movie theater in the center of town with an old school marquee and on the last day of school the graduating seniors drive the family tractor to school. Not a real town but a good example of a real small town is Cicely Alaska in Northern Exposure. Coal townWest Virginia movie October sky Telluride is incredibly expensive to live in. It’s not a typical small town at all. As charming places they dont exist anymore. The ones that are left look like ghost towns. I’ve never viewed Telluride as a small rural town as it’s a tourist trap. Elizabeth CO still has the small rural town vibe and look but not for long unfortunately. When I think of a charming town square that is in a quaint small town I always think of Centerville IA. I have extended family who’ve lived there for decades now and it’s the cutest town square I’ve seen by far. Does anyone else think this post was written by ChatGPT? Post 75 Does the gravy in biscuits and gravy taste like brown gravy? Cant imagine what it tastes like allergic to wheat so cant have the American biscuits either we call them Honey Muffins in my country No way. It tastes like sausage and goodness. Not even close not remotely close. Brown gravy is made from drippings and fat from cooking beef deglazed with a little wine and the main liquid would be beef broth or stock. A little flour for thickening. Tastes very beefy. Sausage gravy is made from the drippings from cooking American style breakfast sausage plus butter and milk is the main liquid and also flour for thickening. There is no honey in American biscuits. You can certainly add it as a topping so I don’t know that your honey muffins are the same thing. These biscuits are not sweet more buttery tasting No not even close. Its unlikely the biscuits that youre used to are anything like the buttermilk breakfast biscuits that Americans use in this dish. Its a white gravy basically a Béchamel minus the nutmeg with pork breakfast sausage mixed in. from Alton Brown food geek and Southerner. from Southern Living magazine one of the oldest and most popular publications for southern culture. Some households or restaurants may have a spin on this but this is a basic and traditional recipe. Its unlikely the pork sausage where you live is anything like American breakfast sausage so working from basic ingredients. Youll need a cast iron skillet. If you cant find buttermilk keffir is acceptable. No its a creamy gravy like a bechamel sauce with chunks of breakfast sausage mixed in. Our biscuits are like scones but not sweet. It tastes like bacon fat milk salt and pepper. lol. No. Its a sausage gravy. Also Im not sure that honeymuffins are the same thing. What country are you from? Absolutely not. It tastes more like a thick rich cream soup with sausage in it. Im also allergic to wheat I make it with glutinous rice flour. The biscuits I also make with wheat free flour and they are not sweet at all. Theyre more like a crumbly bread. No it doesn’t and from what I just saw on google honey muffins” aren’t really close to biscuits either. Btw they’re not *that* hard to make gluten free. I’ve had to eat that way for years and I just switched from wheat flour to a gluten free mix. Honey muffins? There is no honey in a regular American biscuit. They are mostly butter and flour. The white gravy is salt and pepper flavored. No beef flavor like brown gravy. The liquid used is milk or cream. The fat used for the roux is butter bacon grease sausage grease or lard. My favorite is bacon grease. You can make a version without flour. Use cream salt pepper and xanthan gum. Are the called Honey Muffins bc they’re sweet or bc they’re a vessel for honey? Our biscuits are not sweet at all. Nothing in biscuits and gravy is supposed to be sweet. Nope different flavor entirely Could you link these honey muffins”? I want to see what you think biscuits are. Why do you call them honey muffins? No. no. brown gravy is made with beef fat/ broth. white gravy is made with pork fat or butter. by honey muffins i assume they are biscuits covered in honey. those are good but the biscuit and gravy biscuits are more savory and usually don’t have honey drizzzled on em. No. Its often made with sausage so it tastes more like pork and black pepper. Also Im having a hard time imagining anything called a honey muffin is the same as a biscuit. Can you link a recipe? no its a white creambased gravy. its milk sausage fat salt and pepper If you asked this question where I come from theyd rebuild the gallows and hang the offender.....in stating that no the gravy is more like an orgasmic coalition with sausage. I have celiac disease so Im on a strict gluten free diet. Biscuits can be made gluten/wheat free. No it’s pork not beef Nope. Nope not even a little. You’ve gotta give it a shot you can make it at home. Practice until when you taste it angels sing. It’s also important to have the best kind of American biscuits and those are hard to find in other countries. American biscuits are big and fluffy cake like in texture but bready in flavor. They should be buttery and brown on the top and about 4” tall minimum. I’m from the south which is Biscuit Central and a pretty good cook but even I struggle with making quality biscuits. No its white gravy. Typically made of a pork base where as brown gravy is a beef base. You typically make your gravy for sauce gravy and biscuits with the left over grease of the minced sausage you just browned up. Remove sausage add your flour and to soak up and toast the flour a little bit mix in milk and simmer add milk or flourmaybe even corn starch to get desired thickness. Salt and pepper or season to your flavor preference. Not the same. I bet you can make something similar though. Cook pork sausage you surely have something similar enough. Make a roux guess youll need special flour for that. Milk or cream or buttermilk and itll make a gravy thats really sort of like a thick cream soup. Then add some sausage back in salt and quite a bit of black pepper. You could eat it on some safeforyou bread perhaps? Maybe toast it. Wont be the same but close enough to get the idea. Not at all. When I make it its sausage and sour cream based. Im also allergic to wheat so I use gluten free flour to thicken the sausage gravy and pour it on top of fried potatoes. It’s a pretty neutral black peppery gravy it gets most of its flavor from the sausage but it’s hard to describe honestly. Looking at biscuits and gravy without trying them is unappealing trying to describe them can make it sound mostly salty/bland but it just works perfectly. The gravy starts as a roux like brown gravy and follows similar rules but the cook time is shorter. More flour is used and as a result the gravy has a thicker consistency than brown gravy. So a great biscuit for biscuits and gravy won’t really be sweet. Or too sweet. If I make from scratch it will resonate of fluffiness salt and butter. I will add no sweetener whatsoever to the recipe. The south has a white gravy and a red gravy for biscuits/breakfast. It has tomatoes in it. Sausage gravy should taste like breakfast sausage salt and peppery and porky! It really is the best! Not even close. It’s made with sausage and milk so it’s creamy sausage goodness. Its a sausage gravy I think brown gravy is a beef based gravy. So no it doesnt taste the same No. It’s flour milk butter pepper and sausage. We do not use honey in our biscuits. I doubt what youre talking about is anything like our biscuits. No. Its a white gravy made with country loose flavored with sage and black pepper among other things pork sausage. No. It’s cream based Youve had bechamel sauce I imagine? Fry some sausage and then use the grease to make a bechamel sauce then sprinkle in bits of the sausage and thats what it tastes like. Its delicious. No its a sausage gravy. If you want to try it brown your sausage and pour in milk and heat up then add a cornstarch slurry to your milk and sausage whisking vigorously so it doesnt clump and Im sure you could find some gluten free biscuits or bread somewhere to try with it. It tastes like sausage and flour. Nope. Its a sausage based gravy. No. Not at all. No. BeardMeatsFood on YouTube did a chicken fried steak challenge. Hes from UK and he said that the gravy is what he would consider a cream sauce. We call it sawmill gravy. It’s a basic béchamel or white sauce” without nutmeg that gets most of its flavor from the sausage and anything else added. Nope totally different and way better It is not always a sausage gravy. Which is a bechamel with usually day old chopped up sausage added to it. Often the roux is made with bacon fat but not always. Many folks use just a bechamel. Most often it’s a peppered bechamel as in a good amount of ground black pepper is added. How much depends on your taste preference. It’s should have a taste of pepper but just pepper. About 2 tablespoons. No brown gravy is generally served with beef. Country gravy which is extremely popular in the southern UD is a heavenly flavor. And now I want biscuit and gravy for breakfast today. Cream gravy / sausage gravy is what is used on biscuits and gravy. Insane people call it white gravy. As if white is a cooking item. Recipe is simple. Take bacon or or butter and add flour in equal amounts. Over medium high heat mix. If it ts too runny add more flour till you get a melted paste consistency then add milk. Several cups should do. Stirring all the while. If its sausage gravy you use the sausage drippings and bacon/ butter and add crumbled sausage to it. It’s country gravy” or sausage gravy” and it is completely antithetical to brown gravy No and from the recipes I’ve seen of honey muffins those aren’t biscuits. Biscuits aren’t sweet. No. Sausage gravy is nothing like brown gravy. It tastes more like cream of mushroom soup. Not exactly but its in a similar category in terms of flavorprofile. There are many kinds of buns and biscuits but the biscuits you eat with biscuitsandgravy are unsweetened. Im not sure you have a 11 for what these biscuits are. They are *not* what we call cookies and what the UK may call biscuits. A biscuit is more like a miniature slice of bread thats a bit denser than sandwich bread. Its more like a plain chewy muffin with no sweetener fruit etc just flour oil eggs milk salt and something to make it rise. Biscuits and Gravy is the name of the dish. It tastes nothing like brown gravy. I would have had hard time describing it but then I saw another comment that it tastes like sausage and thats about right. No It’s a white roux Béchamel roux whisked with milk/cream vs a dark brown roux Espagnole roux whisked with beef/veal stock…different in flavor and texture. No love for gravy made from bacon grease? No it’s a white gravy so it will taste milky and you also throw sausage in it so it’s like spicy milk No its a cream gravy. Nope. Not at all. Think wet flour on top of dry flour then optionally add a meat like American breakfast sausage to the gravy. I personally love them. No. Depending on what type you make it tastes like sausage bacon or just white gravey. You know like the one that goes on chicken fried steak. Danm now I want chicken fried steak. Its whats for dinner. Pork sage and pepper! It tastes nothing like brown gravy. If you cant have wheat you can make it from corn starch instead of flour but that wouldnt help with the no biscuits problem. Also the biscuits for gravy almost certainly dont taste like your countries honey muffins. There is no way that something called a honey muffin is like the biscuits we serve with gravy. Biscuits are not sweet. And no yuck no brown gravy! One uses a milkbased gravy aka bechamel with crumbled sausage cooked in it. It is more of a cream gravy and has a sweeter taste that complements things like sausage well Nope! It’s made with sausage bits flour and milk. Totally different dish. Not at all. Its a million times better. The gravy in biscuits and gravy is simply loose breakfast sausage salt pepper or whatever seasoning you choose whole milk and a thickener like flour or corn starch. Nope. Its white and it has specks of pepper in it. I grew up eating biscuits with sausage gravy. Okay the gravy taste more like sausages than anything else. I am not sure about the muffin being a biscuits. Biscuits are more flaky than muffins because they are traditionally made with lard still are in the deep south USA and Muffins are made with oil. Sorry you are missing out on this they are wonderful on a cold winter morning. I really wish that you could try it. Its delicious and its very different from brown gravy. But its hard to explain how. Its got a lot more of a dairy taste and its a bit saltier. The gravy itself is more of a country gravy with the milk and the pepper being the primary flavors and the sausage fat and salt giving it a deep umami flavor. The gravy itself isnt strongly sausage flavored but there is normally a fair amount of sausage in the gravy and that works very well with it. The gravy has sausage flour milk and a bit of salt and pepper. The biscuits are not sweet they dont contain any sugar. They normally have flour baking powder salt butter and milk. No sugar no sweetening. It feels like everyone assumes all American food is sweet and its really not. There are those who would fight me on this but rolled and cut biscuits are better than drop biscuits for this. No it’s not a beef gravy it’s a gravy made from milk white flour black pepper and often bits of pork sausage. It’s often called country gravy. which uses glutenfree flour instead of regular wheat flour. In addition which you would serve the country gravy over. American gravy is not Bisto gravy no. American gravy as far as I know is just meat grease and chunks mixed into a roux. It’s white like Béchamel sauce with bacon or sausage in it. No. Cream Gravy is a French Bechamel Sauce primarily spiced with black pepper but can use things like cumin and paprika as well as crumbled breakfast sausage often primarily seasoned with sage that is well browned and may have bacon grease as part of the roux. American Biscuits are a savory scone that is a bit more fluffy. The gravy from biscuits and gravy is made from usually pork drippings from bacon and sausage fats and uses cream or milk to make the roux a liquid. So they don’t taste like beef gravy because it’s pork gravy. That said now I’m intrigued to try beef gravy on biscuits because that’s probably also delicious. Oh my goodness no. Its delicious sausage wonderfulness. Whoever said our biscuits are like scones is cray cray not even close. Biscuits are light and fluffy buttery goodness. Scones are dense and usually sweet or savory. Here make some yourself 2 tbsp butter 2 tbsp flour 2 cups milk 1/23/4 lb ground breakfast sausage personal preference on how meaty you want it salt &amp pepper \*You will need more salt than you think the milk and flour will cut the salt flavor taste as you go add a little at a time can always add more cant remove! Bake your biscuits put aside. Brown your sausage once browned remove the sausage to a paper towel with a spoon leaving the drippings in the pan. Add the butter to pan. Once melted add the flour whisk whisk whisk until it turns a lovely nutty light tan color. Start adding in your milk slowly stirring as you go until it thickens continue adding the milk until its all mixed into the roux and thickened slightly. Salt and Pepper to taste. Add the cooked sausage back in stir and simmer and let the grease from the meat soak back into the gravy for a few minutes. Slice biscuit in half if want add an egg over easy or poached &amp then pour gravy over biscuit and egg and enjoy! Youre welcome Theyre not honey muffins theres very little sugar in a proper southern biscuit but there are biscuits that do contain honey theyre just not usually used for these biscuits. The biscuits are light and fluffy with a buttery top. The sauce is a creamy pork sausage gravy that is usually forward with cracked black pepper and either thyme or sage. 1/4 cup Flour 1/4 cup butter cook together. Add 2 cup milk sausage black pepper / whatever seasonings you want. Hot sauce is terrific with it. Bring to simmer and thicken. Brown gravy is beefy and usually used with mashed potatoes rather than biscuits but really we can eat whatever food combinations we want! I have had honey muffins in China and our biscuits and gravy would not taste like that. Honey muffins have a different texture and are sweeter. If you’re allergic to wheat you might try using Italian glutinfree flour like the 00 grind or Manitoba grind try using ground mashed potato and rice or other flour and make a gnocchi to put the gravy on or get glutinfree egg noodles or broad noodles instead. Your gravy should be sausage gravy like ours which is nothing like brown gravy and it would be fatty salty greasy. Black peppertasting. Just make sure that the pork sausage link or patty you fry up in a pan first to get the base for your gravy is glutenfree too. Typically its breakfast sausage made into a white creamy gravy however there was a Creole restaurant near me that did biscuits and gravy with andoullie sausage instead of breakfast sausage and it was so good and heavenly so much heavy cream too. Sadly the place closed down and idk if I will ever eat biscuits and gravy that good as someone who doesnt like breakfast sausage Honey muffins was my nickname in college No. It’s milk based with pork sausage very different from beefy brown gravy. Not at all.. still savory but its heavy thick creamy and generally has sausage in it. Its very peppery.. do you call them honey muffins bc you eat them with honey because they definitely arent sweet Tastes like the sausage that was used to make it. Americans make many types of gravy primarily sausage beef and chicken. I think that is where some nonAmericans recoil at biscuits and gravy theyre unaware we eat more than one flavor. Nope A little since it may have meat in it. But also tastes like a cream sauce. But it is more like the consistency of chowder or hollandaise sauce. Just a quick FYI American English will occasionally refer to sauces with meat in it as gravy. In the case of biscuits and gravy the gravy is a bechamel sauce with sausage. It is not the kind of gravy you would pour on your Sunday roast. Also the biscuits are basically unsweetened scones only much much lighter and fluffier in texture. This quirk of American English is also why some Italian Americans refer to ragu napoletano as Sunday Gravy. Its basically a bechamel sauce that uses sausage drippings instead of butter. Nooooooooo. Its a white gravy. Creamy. Flour cream and breakfast sausage. And SOOOOOO good Theres a tiktok page where two British guys try American food at restaurants. When they tried biscuits and gravy they couldnt imagine what it would be l8ke before tasting it. Once they had a bite they swooned with how delishious it was. No. It tastes like cooked milk and pork fat. Its very similar to a French Bechamel but with pork fat instead of butter and with sausage chunks mixed in. American Biscuits will not be as sweet as Honey Muffins when I make them I dont add any sugar. No. It’s a white sausage gravy. And it’s incredible. It is made from breakfast sausage flour and milk. American breakfast sausage is different from sausages in Europe. It is usually finely ground pork similar to texture of ground beef mince. Its not always in a casing and its heavily seasoned with things like black pepper sage and thyme. Brown the sausage in a pan. Once browned you can add flour directly to the sausage in the pan. The fat from the sausage will make a sort of roux and coat the sausage. Mix it in and let it cook for about a minute. Then slowly pour in your milk while constantly stirring. Let simmer until it gets to your desired consistency. Season with more salt and black pepper if needed. That over a fresh biscuit is one of the best things in the world. Not even close. Not at all No it’s a milk gravy. The taste is more akin to the creamy soups like chowder or broccoli soup. But sausage is the flavor component. Not really sure how to describe it but nothing like brown gravy it is creamy usually has sausage in it. and thick. Youre doing it wrong. The Gravy in Biscuits and Gravy is just fried sausage with milk on it. Add a little salt &amp pepper with some flour and maybe a pinch of cornstarch if its too thin... Sausage gravy. No imagine a peppery béchamel or a thicker spicier Alfredo sauce with sausage crumbles mixed in. Some folks use spicy sausage in their recipes and others a more mild sausage. It’s creamy and the flavor mostly comes from the seasonings in the sausage and the pepper/ paprika/ salt/ onion/ garlic in the sauce. No. Its flavor is pork sausage. Brown gravy tastes like roasted meat. Nope! Like ground sausage and other herbs and spices! No. American sausage the savory base of white gravy is flavored strongly by sage thyme pork fat and salt. Those mixed with cream and black pepper will give you the general flavors No. This gravy is a pan sauce made after browning uncased crumbled pork sausage then deglazing the pan with milk or cream and then adding a lot of black pepper. Some wheat flour is added to make the sauce thicker but not a roux. I suppose one could replace the wheat flour with cornstarch/ corn flour. No it takes like white gravy For a traditional biscuits and gravy” make some sausage in a pan. decide whether to chop the sausage up and leave it in the pan or just take the sausage out and leave behind the sausage grease. Personally I prefer to leave the chopped sausage in the pan and mix it with the gravy. turn the heat down to low. sprinkle some finely ground rice flour into the pan to soak up the grease. Asian rice flour works well. Sweet / glutinous rice flour can work but takes practice to not make it gummy so I wouldn’t recommend it for a first try. stir in milk until you have a nice thick gravy. You can serve this gravy over potatoes or rice since you can’t have biscuits. You won’t get the full biscuits and gravy effect but at least you will know what the gravy tastes like. No its basically a sausage grease/butter/flour bechamel ***loaded*** with black pepper sage thyme and red pepper. No. The main ingredients of the gravy are milk as a base with sausage as the main source of flavor. Flour and the fat from the sausage form a roux which then thickens the milk. Its very different than brown gravy which is stock with thickener. The cowboy cooks catchphrase is that biscuits and gravy have almost the same ingredients just in different proportions. we call them Honey Muffins in my country You should know that biscuits in the USA traditionally dont have any sweetness to them. Biscuits might be served with butter or even honey butter but when served with biscuits and gravy you dont add anything to the biscuit instead of the gravy. no by itself its kinda bland American biscuits are not like honey muffins at all. No. Its completely different. White sausage gravy is way better too. Oh baby a white gravy with fireroasted hatch green chilis is *DIVINE.* Youve got me hankering. No. It’s more like a really thick white/bechamel sauce with pork sausage for more umami. And American biscuits are savory light and flaky not made with honey. It’s not SUPPOSED to. It’s a white bechamel sauce with ground sausage and pepper. Its more of a bechamel sauce than a brown meat gravy No its a milk based pork gravy. Its made with breakfast sausage so it tastes heavily like whatever sausage is used. Its like a thick bechamel made with pork fat and heavily seasoned with black pepper as others have said. Its very rich and thick. Its best when served with the meat scrapings from the pan and pork sausage meat in the gravy. No usually it is either a country gravy or a sausage and pepper gravy. That is not to say you can not use other gravies if you like. No it tastes like sausage gravy. Not even a little. Its more closely related to a bechamel. Its a thicker spiced cream sauce with sausage. Post 76 What is your favourite animal to see in the wild in the US? Author Jezzaq94 Foxes. Theyre always entertaining. I love raccoons as well but theres something about seeing a fox that makes you feel like the universe just told you a secret. Edited for grammar. Bison A bat eating mosquitos. Hummingbird. Magical every time. Love manatees Moose Nothing beats the chill down your spine of hearing a massive bull elk bugle right in front of you. Had a few incredibly close encounters of unaware bears as well. You may think you know how big and scary they are… just double that. Sandhill Cranes we have a population in Michigan and its like staring a dinosaur in the eye. Bald Eagles 🦅 Turkeys. I’m in a city and they wander near green spaces in the city and into the street and mess traffic up. I don’t know why i love watching them wander around doing whatever wild turkeys do causing chaos. Edit grammar Being from Texas I’m always stoked when I see an armadillo. They’re cute stupid and walk on their little tippy toes. Horned toad lizards are also cool if you can manage to see one. Roadrunner Raccoons are always up to some mischief so I enjoy coming across them Bear River otters and hawks Manatees! They’re majestic potatoes Great Horned Owls and I dont even have to leave town to see them. Always fun to see raccoons too. Bobcat Horses Loons deer unless they’re jumping out in front of my car Raccoons Alligator or seal I’ve been lucky to live on both the east and west coast. Since we moved to the Southwest Ive become a fan of Gila Monsters. I live in South Florida and my backyard is literally the Everglades. I’m not joking my pool area actually looks out onto a preserve that opens into the Everglades nothing beyond. We get all sorts of animals here gators iguanas lizards storks herons. My FAVORITE to see are the Roseate Spoonbills! They are rare but I’ve seen maybe 34 in my backyard. They are absolutely gorgeous! Skinks. Those electric blue tails are pretty cool. Lightning bugs are a very rare treat these days. Black bears. Bunnies!! Every once in a while Ill see one in my backyard. I remember growing up in the Ozarks and the plot of land that our trailer park was on yes ha ha funny trailer park American had a bunch of natural caves that was along the Niangua River. And I remember me and my brother would go into them and see sleeping mountain lions Bobcats Raccoons ect. I miss seeing that shit but as an adult I dont have the balls to go within 50 yards of a mountain lion Opossums they’re such silly little guys. Like look at you with your little emo fingerless gloves Only saw them once but nothing compares to bald eagles swooping past in the wild. Otters. I love spotting groundhogs with their big furry rumps and their cute little faces!! I just do not enjoy seeing the one that currently tries every afternoon to sneak into my garden. 😒 Roadrunners they are just fun That Ive actually seen and enjoy seeing? Coyotes. That I would like to see and is out there wild in the U.S.? Moose. Blue whale Im not a fan of snakes in general but Red Racers are pretty awesome. We have a raccoon around our house that hangs out with our cats. We have a screened in portion of the porch with a spare fridge. One night I was laying in bed awake and hears something moving out there. Heard the fridge door open then shut. Went out the next morning and one new York strip steak was missing from a pack of 4. Little bastard. Ive seen all the southwestern animals up close in the wild they are all awesome. Porcupine! This will sound super cliche but the Bald Eagle. It’s like seeing mythical creature. Black Bear Grew up in Massachusetts and never saw when they had largely been pushed out of the state. Theyre making a come back and Ive spotted a few around my moms house and old neighborhood. Here in ohio theres a possum that likes to waddle around my back yard. Favorite animal to HEAR is the Mourning Dove! I love their call! Armadillos. They dig my yard up but they are still cool. Dolphins at the beach. Sea lions I like turtles. Possums they are so stinkin cute and so helpful to environment. I’m anxiously awaiting our neighborhood possum to come get the snackies I left him on my porch a little while ago actual possum chow and some veg plus a couple berries. Foxes. Chipmunk or fox Turkey vultures Black Vultures Bald Eagles Golden Eagles Pelicans. Im in Florida and love sandhill cranes! We frequently see them hanging around the pond behind our house. Pelicans. River otter Ravens and crows. Ravens I find their intelligence captivating. Turkey Vultures They are massive birds Skunk. I take them as good luck. Can remember both runins with them they didnt bother me I didnt bother them. Also when you catch a whiff on the wind its a throwback to my house growing up + its the smell of FAFO. Turtle. Also taken as good luck. Ive moved a few off of roadways. Including 2 snapping which required some finagling to do safely. Bird wise hummingbirds. top fuel dragsters running on pure sugar water. Its insane that nature actually evolved the species. They just show up one day in the spring after migrating a huge distance. Its like the Canon Ball Run of bird migrations. Ive yet to find a nest. Lion Again I say the armadillo. How can you top those ears and tail? Fox. I dont see them often so when I do its so exciting. I also like seeing herons. Theyre such fun funky dinosaurs. A fox Bison Ive seen the wolves in yellowstone in the winter. That was cool. Great Horned Owls. There was a nest in my backyard but eventually I had to remove the tree because it was ready to fall Moose but from a distance! Blue jays. ☺️ Theyre actually corvids so theyve got both brains and attitude. And theyre so pretty. Even prettier than cardinals if thats even possible. I also like opossums with their little fingerless gloves and polite awkward shyness. People sometimes post scary pictures of their mouths wide open but they almost never look like that. No idea if youve got the critters that are called possums in Australia but ours are not the same thing. 🙂 Pretty sure theyre named after ours though because opossum is a Native American word and possum is a common colloquial shortening of it. What we have over here is specifically the Virginia opossum and its the most mildmannered little catsized trashstealing rat monster youve ever met https//en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Virginia_opossum Wild horses…Arizona Peacocks are pretty cool. Ive seen them in a couple different places but it still feels uncommon for me Loons Roadrunners whenever I see one and point and say Meep Meep im in my 30s I got a good look at a cougar once. That beats everything for me.. Mountain loin because a sighting is very rare Flying squirrel Camel spiders or hummingbirds. Bob cats in my area I see maybe 2 a year. I like foxes as well and I’ve seen one bear it was a baby. I live in the desert and we have some really unique wildlife. Coatimundi might be my favorite animal. But the tarantula hawk is the most territying. Seeing one flying at you triggers a get the fuck out of the way reaction. Otters! Buffalo. A couple of years ago I was riding some back roads here in Texas on an adventure bike and I turned the corner and I was suddenly like 20 yards from a herd of buffalo. It was open range so no fence between me and the herd. Scared the shit out of me. I was with about 8 other bikes so it was like a standoff between two herds lol. Anything in the mustelid family… otters stoats weasels fishers mink martens etc. I love how boisterous they are and how they tend to move like an inchworm on copious quantities of illegal stimulants. My favorites in the family are river otters and short tailed weasels but I’m delighted to see any of them. We live in the Ozark mountains with our nearest neighbor being five miles away. We see wildlife every day several times a day. Deer come into our yard and eat our flowers. LOL. I always enjoy watching bears from a distance. Racoons are nice too. The other day I saw an opossum with five babies on its back. Javelina I love when I see dolphins just off the coast frequently. If you are out in the water sometimes they are quite close! But it is true thrill to catch a whale breaching. Also sea otters and coyotes. I still enjoy seeing deer as well. Great Blue Heron They make some scary sounds American Crocodile. Crocs are my favorite animal and it has been on my bucket list to see wild crocs for a long time I am happy to report that I’ve finally seen wild crocs! One even relatively close up Burros Actually think skunks are really cute NYC subway rats true survivors apex predators of lost pizza slices Bald eagle of course. USA! Bald eagle. Any owl. And I find deer to be breathtaking. I saw a Mountain Lion once I was in a car Its my favorite animal so that was pretty rad Post 77 What does a ”walkable city” mean to you? I’ve heard the term ”walkable city” and I’ve read people describing it. And by the definitions I’ve heard all European cities are walkable. However all American cities I’ve ever visited are also walkable by that same definition. So what does the term even mean to you? People usually use the simple definition of being able to walk from point A to B but it’s so much more complicated than that. How are the walking conditions? Are there sidewalks? Are the sidewalks well maintained? Are the sidewalks by very busy and dangerous roads? Is it accessible for disabled people using wheelchairs or crutches or people who are blind who can’t see overhanging branches or obstructions in their way? Are there frequent places to sit? Are there plenty of places to use the restroom that are easy to identify and reach? Are there covered areas that make walking in the rain or intense sun comfortable? Is there construction that blocks pathways or makes navigation confusing or impossible? There’s so much that goes into what is considered walkable besides just distance. To me the definition needs to extend out of the city center/downtown area. I’m originally from suburban Atlanta and yeah downtown is walkable but my suburb it’s a minimum half an hour walk to the nearest shop. It was even worse in Florida where walking somewhere from my subdivision involved walking in the verge of a 60mph road with no sidewalk/footpath. I live in a medium size village in England now and I have 3 different shops 6 restaurants a gym my doctors office etc all within a ten minute walk from me and that’s kind of the standard layout. We only really need to leave the village for the big” grocery store to go to work or speciality stores. It’s not that *all* cities in Europe are walkable but many are. It’s standard for Europe. An example of a not particularly walkable city in Europe is Granada Spain. It’s gorgeous and I loved visiting but we did take taxis. For me a walkable neighborhood means within a 15 minute walk I can hit up a bank and a grocery store. And that I can easily commute to work or go to the doctor by public transportation within an hour. Walkable means basic services like healthcare education employment entertainment and food are within a reasonable walking distance maybe 12 miles. But it also means things like sidewalks and public transportation. Come to Houston sometime between May and October and you’ll rethink walkable. Even if you were in an area that was physically walkable you’d probably end up with a million dollar hospital bill after suffering heatstroke from the attempt. Los Angeles is not a walkable city at all. In theory it takes about an hour and 30 minutes by car to go across los angeles from west to east county lines. Our transit is shite and good luck to Europeans thinking they can take a train anywhere in LA for the world cup. Our train schedules come once every 45 minutes to an hour with a mid afternoon break of 3 hours. They also shut down at 8 pm some run till 10. We rely on cars to do the simplest of tasks like going to schools or going 1 mile away to the grocery store. Going to Tokyo theres practically a station at every corner with a train running every 5 minutes. In London the Tube is pretty manageable and can get you from point A to point B. In Los Angeles a car is a necessity. But in London its a luxury. Thats what defines walkability to me. That and safety as well I would say a walkable _city_ not metro area is one where you can live fully or almost fully without a car. Good transit and amenities being in/near residential areas where you can walk to them. My city Seattle is this way. Ive lived here 18 years and have only had a car for about half that time. Almost no cities in America are walkable by my definition and for the cities that are the suburbs around them are _not_. Some suburbs will have a walkable area with transit into town for commuters but thats if youre _lucky_. A lot of different definitions and massive exaggerations made by realtors. What cities in the USA have you visited that are walkable? There are very few. Basically to me it means a city where I dont *need* to own a car to get to my job friends houses concerts movies the grocery store and back etc. It doesnt mean I have to be able to walk the whole city of course. It means I can walk to a bus or train that will get me wherever I need to go if its more than a few miles and that transit system is fairly/at least sort of reliable and safe and runs pretty late into the night. It means the neighborhoods are mixeduse with grocery stores and corner taverns and coffee shops and hardware stores and other useful businesses *within* residential areas. A lot of suburbs to get from the residential areas to the commercial areas where you might work is 15 min in a car with no option for public transit. However all American cities I’ve ever visited are also walkable by that same definition. Yeah I point this out constantly Ive lived in Japan supposedly a transit utopia for 20 years and based on the definitions of walkable city that internet urbanists use I have literally never lived or worked in a walkable area. That includes Tokyo. Because my office in Tokyo is surrounded by stroads I have to cross a 6 lane highway to get to the train station. I have to go under freeway overpasses to get to clients offices. In my home neighborhood no sidewalks. No bike lanes anywhere. I have to cross another 6 lane highway to get to the grocery store. No entertainment in walking distance maybe two restaurants. A couple convenience stores. Internet urbanists arent serious people. They dont really have any coherent ideas. They throw around meaningless buzzwords no a stroad isnt a thing. Ive had internet urbanists tell me that the cars speeding down my narrow sidewalkless street arent dangerous because its people scale. No actually speeding on a narrow street with no sidewalks that children have to use to get to school isnt magically safe because the streets human scale thats just a dangerous narrow road. For the vast majority of people walkable doesnt really mean anything. Its just performative selfflagellation. It means whatever the person needs it to mean to maximize their sense of selfimportant selfloathing. No sidewalks in America? Literally hell. I hate it here. No sidewalks in Japan? Walkable utopian human scale urban design. A walkable city to me is a city or area within a city that combines both residential and business in a way to where walking is considered a regular and efficient way of transport. Cars can exists in walkable communities but the design itself is meant to benefit both pedestrians and cars to the point that cars are not necessary. It’s not a place you could” walk it’s a place you DO walk. Like I live in a neighborhood with sidewalks but that’s sidewalks don’t connect anywhere outside of residential areas so my city itself isn’t walkable. There’s a massive impassible on foot highway through town that’s not walkable. The only walkable area where I live is town center which is teeny tiny even the mall next to it is focused more on cars with parking lots taking up the majority of space over efficient transit and efficient use of space To me a walkable city means being able to reach most daily life activities/necessities on foot or with public transit. This means shopping education food leisure &amp work. By that definition many city centers are fully walkable but few big American cities are walkable as a whole except perhaps NewYork Ive heard Boston &amp Chicago are also similar never been though. I lived in Chapel Hill NC and that was a very walkable midsize city probably thanks to its university. Walkable cities imo are designed with people in mind rather than cars and where to park them. The worse it is for cars the most likely it is good for walking. To me walkable city means that a relatively healthy person does not need a car to get through their everyday life and generally does not miss having one. From their home they can easily and safely get to the grocery store pharmacy school church parks doctor offices restaurants etc. without getting into a car at all. Ideally they can also get to their job on their own their two feet as well. But if not they can get there easily and efficiently on a bus or subway still not needing a car to participate in society. ETA I used reasonably healthy to describe the actual walk if walking but I agree that walkable cities should also wheelchair friendly though I understand that a city that is walkable for a person without a walking disability may not be as easily navigable without a car for people with chronic pain and such. New York is a very walkable city. Most sidewalks are pretty wide and most roads have clear crosswalks pedestrian priority. Additionally almost anything you need is within a short walking distance accessible resources/few food desserts for example. It helps that Manhattan is mostly on a grid easily navigable streets. Yeah I’ve wondered the same. Feels like the term gets thrown around a lot but almost any city is technically walkable if you’re willing to walk far enough. Maybe it’s more about convenience and vibe than actual walkability? It means I can ideally get around through transit or small enough that it does not matter and that I can walk to a store or a restaurant within 5 or 10 minutes. Boston A walkable city is a place where you can live comfortably without a car and get anywhere you need by walking on pedestrian/bike only paths or sidewalks. My city is like this and one of the reasons I like it here. I have a house in the Midwest and a condo in SW Florida. Both have within one mile a grocery store 6 or 7 restaurants a bank dry cleaner a hardware store and a variety of other businesses. My wife and I can easily go a week without using the car. Many towns and cities are not walkable by European standards but do have areas that are quite walkable. Still many choose to drive. For some the weather can be too hot Florida or have ankle or knee high snow Midwest which isn’t conducive to bringing home groceries. Others are older or infirm. As with many things the world looks different depending on climate age kids and physical ability. When I got stuck in Dallas for 3 days a year ago this week I needed to buy something that was less than a mile from my hotel. I could see it from my hotel balcony. It was literally impossible for me to walk there as it would require walking along freeway on and off ramps. I had to pay for a Lyft to go literally on a two minute drive. A neighborhood where you can walk to get your basic needs cafes groceries retail .... However all American cities I’ve ever visited are also walkable by that same definition. I suspect you havent visited many American cities then. There are some walkable cities in the US. Boston NY and most of SD immediately come to mind. SF is pretty walkable if you like hiking up mountains on a daily basis. I stayed with a friend in Hermosa Beach CA. I was flabbergasted that there was a beach a bar 3 restaurants and a small grocery store within 3 blocks of the apartment. And a supermarket a half mile away. Only having to walk a couple blocks to where you need to go after getting off public transit I lived in Brisbane Australia with a family of 7 people for 2 years without owning a car. The biggest point is being able to walk to the market to get food. I currently live in a very small town and I can walk to everything except the food market and the kids’ secondary school. So my tiny town 6000 residents is technically less walkable than Brisbane 1.5 million residents. Can you go by foot from where you live to buy milk and bread and walk home with it? Can you walk or cycle to work and back? Can you walk to a cinema/clothes shops/cafe/restaurant and then back home again? You can survive easily without a car. All your weekly needs are within an easy safe walk. If I have to walk more than a half hour one way for groceries its not walkable. The neighborhood I grew up in had sidewalks on a lot of the streets tons of parks and trails. However the nearest grocery store was well over a half hour away by foot. The middle school was a block away from my house but the elementary school I went to was a 45 minute bus ride each day let alone walking. The highschool was technically possible to walk to if you had a hour. That was not a walkable neighborhood I can walk out my door eat/drink/shop/work/relax and walk back home You can do most everything on foot including doctor and dentist. To me it’s not just a coffee shop. Western European Countries. Being able to live a normal and full life without owning a car If youve visited walkable American cities your definition is different from mine. There are walkable parts of smaller cities and towns. In most places I dont want to walk on that narrow part next to the curb thats really lumpy with cars going by at 40 mph. In my mind walkable means comfortably walkable without a safety concern. Across all of the town. I find Boston to be the most walkable in the US. Although I have walked NYC Chicago DC and Philly pretty easily. I found almost all cities on the west coast could be walkable but preferable with a car I have not been to San Diego though. I walked a lot in Nashville Austin San Antonio and Charleston. Orlando and other Florida cities I needed a car bc the transit was going to take 10x a drive and everything is highway. Walkability can vary. A lot of people mean pedestrian infrastructure good sidewalks pedestrian trails bypassing roads altogether wellsignaled crosswalks or better yet pedestrian bridges over roads so no one has to wait. But you also have to consider distances few people have time in their schedules to commute 10 miles on foot even if there’s a perfect path the whole way. Steep hills can gatekeep walkability to only ablebodied people who are already in good shape. And then there’s the weather. You could live in a city with plenty of sidewalks and paths lots of destinations close together and only a few gentle hills but still need a car because the place is below freezing several months of the year or gets frequent heavy rain or gets dangerously hot in the summer. Here’s an article that defines what Americans mean by walkable pretty well and why Europe has more of them than the US does https//www.theguardian.com/environment/2024/sep/16/europebeatstheusforwalkablelivablecitiesstudyshows Its a dumb phrase that I only read about here on Reddit. Aside from commuting to work I work out past the public transport links I can pretty much walk anywhere in downtown Redmond WA in 15 minutes or so. We now have a light rail connection to Bellevue which increases this feeling for me. There are side walks along every road plenty of cross walks with stop lights and a public transportation system that can be easily reached by walking. One where driving makes you feel anxious. It’s all about aligning your daily rhythm with your environment. A walkable city can dramatically impact your quality of life affecting everything from health and finances to social connection and overall wellbeing. There’s *de facto* proximity to your daily needs. You can easily walk to grocery stores cafés parks libraries and transit stops. Mainly you don’t need a car to get around. When you live in a walkable city the streets start to tell stories. You don’t just pass through places—you become part of them. There’s the café on the corner where the barista remembers your name or the joy of having a local bookstore where the cat naps in the same sunny spot or the familiar rhythm of your neighbor’s footsteps as you both head out from your building in the morning. There’s something quietly reassuring in all that in the glances exchanged the daily routines unfolding side by side and the silent rhythm of shared spaces too. Everything becomes comfort. A good walkable city is one that makes people say ugh I don’t want to drive there.” Like here Tokyo. That you can easily live there without owning a vehicle and can rely on public transportation. I would describe it as that most of the things that you want to see or do are within walking distance no matter your fitness level. This usually means within a few blocks or a mile at the most. Anything over a mile is pushing it as being walkable. This would include shops restaurants and grocery stores and probably parks and touristtype attractions as well. Ive been all of the US and Canada and some places in Europe and the Caribbean as well. Two of the most walkable cities Ive been in are Boston and Quebec City. New Orleans was fairly walkable as well. That suburban neighborhoods connect by greenways and walking paths. Drives me crazy that I have to go to the front entrance of our subdivision to get out of it when I have seen how it could be… Also some neighborhoods you literally can’t leave on foot because of no sidewalks. Also sidewalks here have a habit of leading to nowhere. It’s a mess. Charlotte NC That I can not own a car and have no trouble doing basic things like getting to work grocery shopping going out for coffee/lunch/dinner going to the hardware store or whatever. Sure some things might be far enough away that I’ll uber but mostly I can get by walking or taking public transit. it means a city that you don’t need a car to get around in and public transportation isn’t too far away. i think that cities by definition are walkable b/c everything is right next to each other. it’s not like rural or suburban areas where housing is separate from conveniences like a supermarket. it wouldn’t be efficient to walk from one place to the other. it’s easier to travel by car since public transportation isn’t great in these areas. eta i live near NYC and the last city i’ve been to out of state was Nashville and man nothing compares to NYC! nashville did not feel like an actual city to me. it was less crowded cleaner and people could get around by electric scooters lol. parking didn’t seem like a big issue either I would differ on that walkable no only mean there’s a sidewalk it’s a mix of infrastructure distances good or at least reliable public transportation and safe low speed not hostile walkable areas. If we takes this in consideration more than half of US cities aren’t walkable. As someone who lives in a capital city in Europe of about 2 million people and I live pretty much on the outskirts of it this concept of a city not being walkable is wild to me. I have a supermarket chemist hotel several bakeries small theatre small park/playground two workshop/vehicle repair garages multiple doctors dentist two schools several restaurants flower shops convenience store butcher multiple takeways cafe pub hospital all within literally a few hundred metre radius of my apartment. American cities are walkable” as well the main difference is that walking from point A to point B will take you 23x as long by virtue of how spread out American cities tend to be compared to European cities What American cities have you visited? Because yes especially the tourist areas of NYC LA Chicago and SF are fairly walkable. But that isn’t the norm. To me walkable means being able to accomplish most if not all of my necessary tasks in less than a 15 minute walk. Grocery doctor pharmacy restaurants entertainment etc. Added bonus for public outdoor space in that same radius. Easy of being able to walk in every day life legally and not like LONG walks. walking on infrastructure made for walking sidewalks paths etc.. A lot of small cities and larger some suburbs are decently walkable a lot of small towns are not. Ideally a walkable” community is something that is more designed around walking rather than other forms of transit but there aren’t many of those around. What do you mean what does it mean? It means that I can get everything I need groceries restaurants entertainment parks without needing a car. It means I can walk to points of interest. Only in the past 15 years have I been able to walk to the grocery store or have a lot of good restaurants within walking distance. You could walk but if you needed anything you had to drive. It matters what you can walk to. In a lot of American cities there’ll be a downtown area that is walkable with sidewalks and may have restaurants offices and convenience stores—but often lack essentials like grocery stores doctors etc. which you then need to drive to because the public transportation is either not robust or nonexistent. Obviously this doesn’t apply to places like NYC and other global hotspots. But for most midsized American cities their walkability doesn’t function the same way as in many European cities and towns of the same size. A city in which car ownership is not required or even inconvenient. This image should illustrate the difference between a walkable a unwalkable city https//i.imgur.com/8hLZzwk.png Walkable city means you can live there without having to rely on a car. Can you get to a grocery store work and hospital without a car. Most big cities have walkable neighborhoods but very few American cities are truly walkable as a whole. I get to work and to my necessities grocery store doctor gym by walking You can walk around it durrbrain. All American cities you’ve been to are walkable? I really doubt that unless you’ve only been to nyc and Chicago. Most cities in America it would take you at least a half hour to walk from your house to the nearest grocery store. To me a walkable city is one that doesn’t have separate zoning for residence and commercial use. Being able to walk around your neighborhood for your daily needs or take reliable public transportation not needing a car for every day life. I lived just outside of Vancouver BC for a year. Still within the metro area not in the boonies. Sure I can walk to the store but unless I want to go to the overpriced fancy grocery store its at least 45 minutes downhill and of course 45 minutes uphill loaded with groceries to the regular store. The local small park was at least 30 minutes away. The pizza place was 15 minutes away. I have no idea where the train / subway station even was I never saw it during my walks / drives. Even in the heart of the city walking around in Toronto or Vancouver is not nice at all. Big avenues lots of traffic 3 blocks away means a 10 minutes walk etc. Now Im back in Europe in a small capital city. I have within 5 minutes walk 4 grocery stores reasonable priced a florist doctor dentist massage optician meat shop pharmacy etc etc. The city center is 15 minutes away and most of it is pedestrian / buses only meaning much mor comfortable and quiet than most North American cities. I actually feel like I want to walk here whereas I never do when Im in Canada. For me it means being able to get most places without having to drive. I run basic errands on foot and if something is within walking distance I can walk there safely there will be sidewalks I wont be crossing under a freeway or navigating a desolate concrete desert. It also means that if something isnt in walking distance theres a safe reliable public transit option I can use to get there or at least most of the way there and walk the rest of the way. Are there sidewalks on both sides of the road? Are the sidewalks wide enough for 2+ adults to comfortably pass each other? Is there shade? What’s the condition of the sidewalk? Are there large broken pieces or cracks where it’s difficult to walk on them? Are there poles and other random shit in the sidewalk? Are there residential areas close enough to grocery stores that you can walk and not take a car? How’s the public transport? Do busses or trains come frequently? What is the condition of the public transport? All these questions set American cities apart from European cities in terms of walkability. Walkable from the place you woke up. The core of many murican cities is walkable however everyone lives 30 minutes away in the suburbs and only comes in once a week for brunch and the farmers market. You’ve never been to my city. It’s absolutely not walkable. First of all sidewalks and crosswalks are laughably inadequate. Secondly it takes at least half an hour to get from most residential areas to most commercial areas. Thirdly in the summer it’s so hot and there’s so little shade that a half hour walk can literally kill you if you’re not carrying a gallon of water. Walkable City means a city where the majority of what you need Home Restaurants Groceries Drug Stores Cleaners etc. Are all within an easy walking distance. To ME Walkable City means too many damn people. It means living in a small apartment and having to wade through human shit plus dog shit to get to the grocery store a few blocks away It actually has sidewalks. Our largest cities are walkable in the downtown areas but smaller cities are not and our suburbs are not either. For example in Europe all the smaller towns and suburbs I’ve been to are still walkable but in my small city I live about 4 miles from the city center and I cannot bike walk run or take transit to get from my house to there because of the roads. Like literally there are highways and interstates where it is illegal to travel by those mediums and no transit comes to my neighborhood. Walkable means I can walk to common errands… supermarket pharmacy hardware store haircut bank working out studio/gum few places for coffee &amp food &amp public transit nearby. Boston NYC Chicago &amp city of San Francisco fit this criteria. Another reason to go to Europe. Every Air B&ampB I stayed at all of these things were no more than 10 minutes away. You can get around easily without a car. It includes cities with good public transportation. I live in Munich the home of BMW in a neighborhood I find somewhat dead. It is mostly residential with abundant parking every apartment has its own space and the streets are lined on both sides with cars and it lacks amenities attractive enough to draw visitors from elsewhere in the city. Yet I consider it highly walkable. Within about 20 minutes I can walk in the shade to my job one commercial gym two schools two grocery stores several kindergartens general practitioners dentists banks restaurants and convenience stores as well as a major park several minor parks and two metro stops. From those I can reach the entire city including the specific dentists doctors restaurants and services I prefer in about 45 minutes doortodoor. This is what a walkable city is to me. Cars are not absent but they are unnecessary for a comfortable life. I think it is easier to define unwalkable. My town is definitely unwalkable. The main roads are stroads highway/street hybrids that are quite dangerous for cars and pedestrians alike little to no sidewalks no pedestrian crossing lights at intersections businesses too far apart to walk to massive parking lots little to no onstreet parking. The only people who walk on the highway in my town are the poor and the homeless. Basically if the town is designed so that you cannot access anything without a car it isnt walkable. To me it means that I can get most of what I need for my daily life with 2030 minutes walking. I live in one and love it. I shop for groceries everyday. I have hardware stores and bakeries and butchers nearby. I love not having a car and use taxis or the bus when I need too. Everywhere I’ve live in the US has been walkable” in that I could walk to groceries and restaurants. But in most cities I’ve had to drive to work. Generally American cities have a lot of really awesome neighborhoods the transit to get from one to the other is the commonly missing part and also lots of Americans live in the suburbs which often won’t have nice neighborhoods even. If I can leave my apartment safely walk to stores that will satisfy my basic needs grocery pharmacy hardware bank walk to bars and restaurants and walk home. Public transport to stores for more advanced needs. This has to be for the majority of the city not just the downtown area. Most European cities probably are walkable. Many American cities are not because they were built to be convenient for drivers not pedestrians. American cities are often set up so the places people live are grouped together in certain places away from grocery stores and other businesses doctors offices etc. This means in order to walk to the nearest grocery store you may have to walk 30 minutes to two hours depending on your city and where you live in it specifically. The low end of that isnt too bad but its not just the distance. Its also the fact that there are no sidewalks or the sidewalks are broken or blocked a multiple lane highway cuts through the city between you and the store there are no cross walks and the traffic moves at a speed that is not safe for pedestrians there is no shade there are no dips in the pavement to indicate intersections to blind people. So even if the distance is decent its often unsafe at worst and impractical at best to walk anywhere. Most cities have areas that are walkable. The problem is you cant really walk from your house to the store. Walking around your neighborhood is usually doable unless its a dangerous area. My doctors office just moved buildings this week. I usually drive but if I needed to walk for whatever reason the old place was a straight shot from my house and would only take about an hour to get there. The new place is way out of the way across two busy streets after already walking that hour and there are no sidewalks once you cross the second busy street so you have to walk in the road. The same doctors office is now far less accessible to anyone who is unable to drive. Has serviceable sidewalks and stores and services within 1 mile of most residents. 2x bonus for dedicated bike lanes/paths which are rare. Jmoi could be total wrong but in America a city like Manhattan. Its pointless to have a car.you have everything within a short 10 block. Beyond that there is plenty of mass transit or a cab. A walkable city is one that has good public parking garages/spaces within a reasonable walking distance of business centers give or take 10 min walk. With well maintained and protected pedestrian sidewalks and walking paths. Good public transit between business centers and other major points of interest. And reasonable spacing of business centers small shops and residential areas such that you can get from your house/apartment or hotel to the places you want to go on foot reasonably easily. Most American cities do not have this. Only the major ones do and often only for parts of the city. I’ve heard the term ”walkable city” and I’ve read people describing it. And by the definitions I’ve heard all European cities are walkable. However all American cities I’ve ever visited are also walkable by that same definition. I think a walkable city is one where most of the city is highly walkable not just a small portion right in the city center. And its not just that you *can* walk around but that doing will be reasonably comfortable and an *expected* mode of getting around the city rather than a poorly considered afterthought which is inconvenient uncomfortable or even outright dangerous in actual practice. To do the things that I absolutely must do every week go to work get basic groceries visit the bank have a drink etc can all be done without ever setting foot in a vehicle. Its a general term but a lot of postindustrial cities developed with the car as a primary focal point rather than evolving more organically from a mixed use pattern. Walkable might include aspects of connectivity of sidewalks and pedestrian friendly spaces density that supports mixed uses etc. Older cities tend to be that way by default newer cities the LA/Houston etc model of lower density separation of uses are less so outside of some areas. You don’t need a car I believe most Americans who talk about walkability do not think very well. I lived in a very walkable city in UK and loved it but there were smaller houses much much smaller yards and limited parking options. These are things most folks dont want to give up once a person is used to them. There is a charm to the older more dense Eur cities just as there is niceness to having a good sized yard and pool that I have now different strokes for different folks. I dont like having to drive so I tend to stay in my part of the town in the city I now live...that would be the case even with fantastic public transport. However I also like having a car that I can use to go places and the personal freedom that comes with having one and really dont walk much other than for exercise. Just for reference my city Huntsville AL is not considered walkable. However in my SE location I have a neighborhood grocery store multiple restaurants a library and community center a YMCA bars etc all with in a relatively short walk. Not as dense as in UK but easily passable yet no one would ever consider this area walkable even though it is. I dont get the big deal with walkable cities Ive been all over the world and the only time walkable cities are beneficial is if the weather is good. We have walkable areas in Florida though most of the big cities arent great for it but fuck that. I dont want to walk 20 minutes in 98 degree weather to arrive at the store drenched in sweat. Going on a hike or playing some soccer at the park is one thing but I dont want to be sweating my ass off to do errands Ill take my car. There are side walks and other people walking often aka you feel safe. You’d be surprised how much is lacked all over the us. Being able to safely get there by foot in a reasonable amount of time. Most American cities are not walkable. Being able to walk in the city is important but typically your have to drive somewhere because everything is way too far apart. It depends on where you are in those cities. Downtown LA is definitely walkable. But Downtown LA isnt where people live in LA. If you go out to those neighborhoods youll find that people have to walk long distances to get to their local store. For me it means I can leave my house and within 1520 minutes I can walk to anything. I can walk to the supermarket commuter train station hospital stores and centers of 2 different towns. Im right outside NYC in the suburbs. I can go out in Manhattan and come home and never use a car. If I lost my car tomorrow I could easily survive without one for quite a long time and still travel all over my area. The majority of people can go to work obtain basic necessities for life and have many recreation within walking distance. Not sure how you think American cities meet this definition.... For most cities this only describes downtown and even then only barely. In europe the suburbs have walkable towncores but in the USA almost no suburbs have this. NYC Chicago DC San Francisco Boston. Its my understanding that it should be possible for a person to walk to the places they use most frequently to ease up on traffic. You can survive pretty comfortablly just by walking stores are close to where you live work is close by etc. A lot of your bigger cities in the US are totally walkable cities. The idea that the US isnt walkable comes from the fact that when people visit Europe they only see the bigger cities and forget that country exists then they come back home to a rural life and complian that Europe is more walkable. They usually compare walkable cities in Europe to the suburbs in the U.S. and then ask Why are there no walkable cities?”. They also don’t realize that older towns have a downtown area with stores and restaurants which is also walkable if you live near downtown A walkable city does not mean you can technically walk here” A walkable city means that legitimate thought was put into pedestrians infrastructure. It should have wide and accessible sidewalks there should be safe pedestrian crossings accessible not only at every intersection but in between blocks as well you should not feel scared to cross the street there should be traffic calming and daylighting there should be shaded areas to walk under as well as to sit down and eat take a break read talk to friends etc. There should be shops and stores that you can shop at on your way home from work school etc. and I’d argue good transit infrastructure and bike infrastructure are crucial to having a truly walkable city. You can’t walk everywhere It is also a spectrum. It’s not necessarily walkable and unwalkable. Philadelphia is walkable but NYC is even more walkable There are places in the USA that you literally can’t walk across the street. In the suburbs of Chicago there is a road called Randell Road. It is six lanes large and designed with no walk way. So if you are at a store on one side of Randell Road you literally cannot walk to a store on the other side of the road. You must drive. Many cities in the USA don’t have sidewalks. There is no room o. the road for a pedestrian and the cars drive very quickly. That is what people mean by not walkable. You would literally be risking your life if you tried to walk there. A walkable city is one where a person can reasonably accomplish their daily tasks without the use of a car. This includes commuting to work or school pharmacy shopping post office banking healthcare appointments dining &amp nightlife. Walkable cities need a base level of pedestrian infrastructure including sidewalks safe crosswalks public benches footbridges. Walkable cities generally need public transportation as a reasonable alternative to driving frequent departure times under 15 minutes. Of the major cities NYC Boston Chicago Seattle San Fransisco Portland Minneapolis... Of the smaller cities Asheville NC Salem MA Portsmouth NH Saratoga Springs NY Charleston SC Boulder CO... College towns are walkable to me. Many downtown areas are walkable to me. But if that stop the moment I step outside of downtown its not a walkable *city* to me. I need to see robust transportation ease of pedastrian access areas where I can just cross the road to a shop without worrying about a driver going 60 mph. Practically speaking paying 34x as much as it would cost me in gas to ride a train or bus full of homeless drug addicts. America has very unique social and political issues that make Europeanstyle public transit basically impossible. If Elon Musk liquidated everything he owned youd only be able to build like 6 BART stations San Franciscos public transit with the money. It would cost more than a car take a comparable amount of time as a car and then youre getting harassed by tweakers the whole time. Additionally wed have to tear down and rebuild most of our cities as they were designed entirely around automobiles. Before I went to Taiwan and lived in the suburbs Maybe a safe neighborhood where your chances of getting mugged are near zero and maybe a convenience store and 23 restaurants within half a mile 0.8 km of where you lived. After having at least 30 restaurants 6 convenience stores 3 grocery stores stops for 11 bus lines light rail and post office in the same distance in Taiwan Im not so sure anymore LMAO. Its all about the scale. Somewhere that is walkable is intentionally designed around the pedestrian not the automobile. So there are measures to calm or limit traffic sidewalk are accommodating and comfortable trees plants and greenways are internationally used to make it a pleasant experience. It favors mixeduse development so you can find things like small grocery stores convenience stores shops and services all in the same place that people live. Walkable also prioritizes public transportation with the ability for the walker to be transported to another part of the city quick and efficiently. There are not many places in the US that are built around this model. The US prioritizes space for automobiles. Its not uncommon to see an American get in their car and drive just a few blocks down the road because the infrastructure is intentionally hostile or uninviting. Everything is within a 5 minute walk probably In a walkable city you should be able to get from one point to another without using a car or a cab. And you should be able to do this in a timely manner. That means having access to a comprehensive bus system but ideally a metro system if youre making a longer journey. It doesnt mean you have to be able to get *everywhere* solely on foot. Nobody is making 10 km round trip walks unless they have to. But you should be able to make 10 km round trips with a combination of walking and reliable public transit. I lived in Toronto for a year which is fairly similar to Chicago with all the public transportation amenities. I paid to park my car in a garage. But Id go weeks without driving it. Their public transportation is safe clean userfriendly and fast. There was nowhere one would regularly go with a car that you couldnt get to just as quickly on foot. Id call that walkable. Chicago and NYC and Boston are like that too. But Toronto was by far the cleanest that said they know theyre the premier city in the country and they put in a ton of effort to put their best foot forward. Too many people in the area which often results in public transport being feasible for most people In my city I can reasonably walk within my neighborhood but walking to *other* neighborhoods becomes higher risk. Not because of crime but because it requires crossing a freeway which has ramps with highspeed cars. Sometimes there are bridges you have to go under but no sidewalk just the road. Sometimes the only sidewalk between two areas is along a road with cars doing 50kmh or more and the sidewalk is just part of the road only a few centimeters higher but no other separation. Sometimes crossing a wide road the timer for the light is too short and it will change midway across if you arent walking at full speed something not everyone can do. Other times the light may be long enough but there is so much turning traffic that you dont get a good opportunity to cross on foot and you have to wait 23 cycles before you get an opportunity to cross. Yesterday I was going to a neighborhood cafe on my bike I like the cafe but its across town. I took the bus about 8km then got off the bus and had to transfer to another route. I opted to ride instead. Legally I *should* ride in the road but the speeds on that road approach 50kmh and I might do 30 on my bike??? So I took the sidewalk. The sidewalk was wide to start out but then it got narrow. Some properties had no sidewalk and just a worn path in the grass where people walk. I had to cross a 2lane road at one point and it took four lightcycles because turning traffic is controlled by arrows and every cycle had so many turning cars on each arrow slot that I couldnt get across. A 2lane road has only one lane in each direction but even so it took me over five minutes at that stoplight before there was *not* a car moving through the stoplight either cars were turning left from their perspective or right or the light was on for traffic going straight through. *Note I was going north crossing a road.* I crossed that road eventually and the property immediately adjacent to the crosswalk on the far side? Had no sidewalk no trail just a fence. You either go into the street for that section or you go around some other way. You can go around the block or you can cross this street as well the street I was already following not the one I just crossed which was not the street I needed. Mind you at this point I was only about 500m from the cafe *and on the correct side of the road*. I went around that entire block and came back to a point less than 100m from where I had been on the crosswalk. All the other properties had either a worn trail like I described or a proper sidewalk...but that property on the corner had neither. That one property added hundreds of meters of travel for me for others making the same trip it would have added unnecessary street crossings at this intersection I just described if I wanted to either backtrack or take a different detour. What I sometimes tell people is that roads here are designed on the assumption that everyone will have access to a car AND use it for even short trips everything else bike lanes sidewalks etc are optional addons often built either by individual property owners or neighborhood or added by the city/town only if the bike lane or sidewalk doesnt alter the geometry of the street related to car traffic. There is a bit more nuance than that but not much. [removed] Means I don’t need to have a car I picture Tokyo. A city you don’t need a car for. Can easily get anywhere from. With all necessity’s and many luxuries a short walk away. To me it means you can walk from one city to another without the need for a vehicle. Many cities in the US have walkable downtowns but suburban residential areas that are car dependant. While residential suburban streets might have sidewalks you cant walk to go to the supermarket restaurants entertainment or run errands. Walkable to me means that I can leave where I’m staying and reasonably walk to where I’m going. There are accessible and plentiful markets restaurants and stores. Usually this coupled with reliable mass transit. One where you dont need a drivers license or a car. Ive never had a license in my life I get around my city walking biking or on public transit For me it would be… that you could walk to the bank grocery store any errands without getting in a car or other transportation… I experienced this in Sherman oaks California…. This is just my take though. Yes construction seems to always be in these kind of walkable towns. And I’m able bodied and sadly didn’t think about people with disabilities until my dad just got to a point where he needs a walker or wheel chair and it’s very limiting… 15 minutes citys are only going to work if youre building a new citys infrastructure . To expenses to retro shrink our large citys down to walkable 15 minute ones. The definition generally used means that from a given point say from where you live that there are a number of amenities within walking distance that you can easily walk to. For example where my parents live they can walk to several restaurants and a grocery store. Walkability scores generally assign a score based on three factors a the variety of different amenities grocery stores restaurants entertainment centers points of interest b how easy is it to walk to those amenities are you having an easy stroll down a picturesque street or are you playing Frogger” across a busy highway? and c the variety of points of interests. Like are you walking distance from a small grocery stand that doesn’t have everything so you need to drive to a regular grocery store—or are you walking distance from two major grocery stores that have everything you need? There are plenty of walkable American cities as well as many walkable areas within major American cities. Downtown Raleigh from the Historic Oakwood district is extremely walkable within a short walking distance you’re downtown you’re at the restaurants near Oakwood you’re walking distance to a grocery store. Where I live on the outskirts the only amenity within walking distance is the Mountain To The Sea Trail the nearest grocery store and nearest restaurant is a 3 mile drive. One that was designed with narrow streets before cars and zoning laws existed. well maintained and accessible side walks and homes schools stores and workplaces that aren’t miles and miles apart. you can’t have one without the other. a lot of the time people complain about there not being enough sidewalks or horribly maintained sidewalks which i totally agree with but things also need to be closer together for a city to be considered walkable. All basic good &amp services for daily life are within walking distance. I’ve never actually lived in such a place except maybe in college but would like to for a while. Post 78 What’s an idiom you like to use? Author CocteauTwunkie Well burn that bridge when we get to it Potentially unrelated but I have a Czech online friend that I game with who will occasionally latch onto an English idiom I use and think its amazing proceed to explain it to me and often give me a greater appreciation for it. Ones he has particularly enjoyed A day late and a dollar short His explanation It is so funny because even if we had been on time we still would not have been prepared! 😂 Clusterfuck His explanation It is like you are being fucked many times all at once! Other than that Mrs. Lincoln how was the show? This one had to be explained a tiny bit but apparently they have a VERY similar idiom. Six of one half a dozen of the other. As useless as tits on a boar hog. That dog wont hunt Shit in one hand and wish in the other and see which one fills up first. Lord willin and the creek dont rise. Smells like the south end of a northbound cow. That took a month of Sunday’s. That’s a sore dick deal right there. You can lead a horse to water but you can’t drown them. Let her buck till she’s good and fucked. Busier than a onelegged man in an ass kicking contest. Not the sharpest knife in a box of spoons. More fucked up than a football bat He fell out of the ugly tree and hit every branch on the way down! You can stuff your sorries in a sack As sharp as a bowling ball and As pointless as a bag of wet hair Not my circus not my monkeys Speak of the devil You can lead a horse to water Look what the cat dragged in Dumb as a box of rocks Take a month of sundays Sharp as a bowling ball As useful as a screen door on a submarine As useful as tits on a bull put on your safety squints Also it’s fun to see all the regional twists in here. For instance tighter than socks on a rooster” but I’ve always heard harder than putting socks on a rooster” given the talons and all. Does the Pope shit in the woods? I wouldnt say shit if my mouth was full of it. If that actually happens Ill eat my boots without salt. On it/all over it like shit on Charmin. Next step above white on rice I guess. Pot calling the kettle black Its hotter than two squirrels fucking in a wool sock Im higher than an eagles tits Youve got less sense than a bag of hammers Its not rocket surgery Im sweating like a whore in church That’s not the hill I want to die on Tighter than socks on a rooster Ill burn that bridge when I come to it. I’m higher than a giraffes ass” Hold your horses Two shakes of a lambs tail. When all you have is a hammer everything looks like a nail. Youve opened this can of worms now lie in it Sweating like a whore in church It aint rocket appliances! Hit dogs holler. I’m involved in activism and use it often lol Something being stuck like a hair in a biscuit” Not the brightest bulb in the marquee Good enough for the girls in this town. Not my pigs not my farm. Ass deep in alligators Useless as a screen door on a submarine. Dumber than a sack of hammers. Memory of a concussed goldfish. Pigs get fed hogs get slaughtered Dumber than a bag of hammers Not my goat not my rodeo. Garbage in garbage out Make something idiotproof and God will build you a bigger idiot. This gets said way more often than Id like. You’d rather live in shit than let the world see you work a shovel. Dumber than a box of hair Play stupid games win stupid prizes Garbage in gospel out. Idioms strike me as a more southern thing. Like we got em in the midwest but I dont hear them too often. More of a MN thing I imagine. Dumb as a box of rocks A wasted orgasm” Well well well look what the cat finally decided to show up. *Bullshit* I have never once been referring to literal bovine feces. Youre not the brightest crayon in the crayon box. You didnt just get hit with a branch from the ugly tree you got hit with whole tree. Ill throw them off the bridge when I come to it. as sure as God made little green apples. Im fixin to lose my shit. bless his heart he tries. I mean.. when in Rome. short for When in Rome do as the romans do. You can lead a horse to water doesnt mean itll drink it. Eyeball it. Well just play it by ear. Not my circus not my monkeys. Im pickin up what yer puttin down. Two shakes of a lambs tail The dead will bury their dead. Stay in your lane If someone asks me if i want something like another sausage or another pint Ill say Is the pope Irish?. The response is usually Well do you or dont you? I know its pretty stupid but it amuses my inner 8 year old. Hes as graceful as a hog on ice. Slicker than a bay rock on a sunny day I need it like a screen door on a submarine. Id rather get a colonoscopy without sedation. Smooth as Chicago traffic at Friday quitting time. You may think it makes me sound like I’m not the sharpest lightbulb in the box but I use phrases like we’ll burn that bridge when we get there” until the cows come home to roost. It’s not rocket surgery. Friend in College She looks like she got hit in the face with a wet squirrel I never received an explanation that seemed to fit. Holy cow! Phil Rizzuto would say it and I just sorta picked it up Rome wasnt built in New Jersey Does shits cooked count as an idiom Nervous as a longtailed cat in a room full of rocking chairs I long to be the kind of person who can savagely dismiss someone as all hat and no cattle but Im from Michigan and Ive never even been to Texas so Im pretty sure theres a law against it. To quote the famous Les Dennis ‘If it’s there I’ll give you the money meself’ Sweating like a whore in church. For shits and giggles Off like a herd of turtles That dog wont hunt Couldnt find his way out of a paper bag Like a bull in a china shop Gotta dance with the one who brung you Day late and a dollar short A man has to know his limitations. Dirty Harry Yes I know he was being sarcastic both times. But I do a lot of DIY and this is very true to me in real life. Example I redid the roof on the garage. And I mean redid I replaced all the plywood fixed some of the rafters and put on new shingles. But the house roof is very steep you need to tie yourself off. I hired pros to reshingle the house. You can lead a horse to water but you cant make it drink. You can wish in one hand and crap in the other and see which one fills first. Don’t say we” unless you have a mouse in your pocket. That makes about as much sense as wiping before you poop I like to subvert one with you can’t lose if you don’t play.” The funny part was when a friend tried to correct me! I don’t have the energy to pretend to like you today. They went ape shit” I’d rather have a bottle in front of me than a frontal lobotomy Post 79 Do yall know your blood types? I am American and I dont know mine and I never hear about anyone else knowing theirs except on TV. But it seems like more of a thing in other countries like Japan for example. Ive never thought to ask my doctor about it. Edit someone else asked this same question two months ago and the consensus seems to be that no most of us dont unless we donate have health issues or are military. Edit 2 a lot of people are saying Of course I have been pregnant and they always tell you then. Is that a new thing? Ive had two kids and if they did check my blood type nobody ever told me. Go donate blood theyll tell you Thanks to the Army I know I’m O NEG and NORELPREF. Ive known mine since I was a little kid. My mom took that as an in to talk to use about what causes different blood types and what antigens were. We joked about our blood types as kids. When I turned 18 I started donating blood when I slacked off a friend died from a motorcycle accident and I reupped my donation because Im a universal donor anyone coming into the ER with injuries like a motorcycle accident get my blood. That feels incredibly good! Yes I used to donate blood regularly until the Red Cross banned me for life. My blood got an A+! Knowing your blood type is for your infornation. A fun factoid. If you need blood in an emergency we are going to give you universal donor or run a confirmatory test to give you type specific. If you are bleeding out come into the hospital tell us your A Pos you are still getting O Neg until we confirm it. Japan has a whole blood type is 25% of a person’s personality” culture. It’s all based on this one weird guy but I guess people really got into it. Recently some places have banned workplace discrimination based on blood type. It’s a big deal. I do know mine but I’ve had to have transfusions. Californian know my blood type im O which is the universal blood type. Ive been pressured to donate my blood as basically every medical visit or situation I have ever had in my entire life. With the way I have been treated I would be surprised to ever find an O that didnt know their blood type. I do! My mom’s life was saved by blood transfusions and she made it a point I knew the importance of giving blood. I give regularly and know my type through that. If you’re in the military it’s on your dog tags so yeah I know. Yes. Onegative. Universal donor. People who donate or have ever been pregnant will ETA most will ETA2 Not sure if they just dont routinely tell some mothers or if something changed but if you were pregnant and had bloodwork its one of the early tests. I know some people dont get routine medical care. https//www.acog.org/womenshealth/faqs/routinetestsduringpregnancy https//kidshealth.org/en/parents/rh.html https//www.mayoclinic.org/testsprocedures/rhfactor/about/pac20394960 I’m a medical laboratory scientist in a hospital lab so I have tested my own blood so many times lmao. I’m O positive. I also typed my RBCs for other common antigens there are way more than ABO! I’m C+ e+ and Jkb+. I’m negative for c E K and Jka. My blood is incredibly boring I have very typical antigen expression. From a clinical perspective that’s actually a good thing. There are more antigens I could test myself for but that’s all I’ve gotten around to. Im a universal donor. I always forget what it is because everyone else remembers A+ I had a few surgeries so I know I’ve gotten bloodwork done regularly for years and I still have no idea what my blood type is Yes I know mine. My Mom always knew it too. You can find out by donating blood or asking your doctor to run a type &amp screen. There are also kits you can order online. It’s on my card but I forgot lol. Mine is easy to remember BPositive 😁 I knew because my mom is Rh negative and Im positive. She told me when I was a kid. Verified again later when I donated blood as a teenager and again when I entered the military. I have for a long time. Since i first donated blood when i was 18. Its not hard to do. It doesnt change. Its like a joke from god that everyone says im so negative/depressed.. blood type is b positive. I donate blood regularly so I know I’m O Neg No. Have even asked my doctor. Surprisingly difficult to find out! Yes and I tell everyone bc mine is special — I’m AB negative less than 1% of people!! I learned mine when I was in high school. We pricked our fingers to test our own blood with the chemicals used in a medical lab obviously this was a biology class. A lot of people chickened out of it though so we had to partner up. Lots of big manly guys afraid to get poked with the same little needle grandma checks her blood sugar with every day! 😅 Ive donated a few times so yes Yes. But I served in the military and it was on my dog tags. A+ I know mine my parents told me what it is when I was a kid. For reference Im 37 and most of my immediate family has the same blood type. My husband also knows his as do a lot of our friends. Maybe its the age group? Our parents all told us when we were young. ETA lol guess I couldve added Im O+ I would have no way of knowing except for specifically asking my doctor for a test or giving blood. My wife was in the military so I assume she knows hers but its literally never been something thats come up in any conversation. I know mine and my moms dads and brother and sisters 🤷‍♀️ When your children are born they tell you what blood type they are. I know both of my parents mine my husbands and my childrens. Why wouldnt people know? What if there was an accident? I can donate to everyone but my mom but only my parents can donate to me. Also if mom has a neg type and dad doesnt the baby being positive can cause problems during pregnancy after youve had one baby. There’s really no reason you need to know your blood type. If you ever need blood you’ll get tested so that the blood products can be cross matched against your own blood sample before they are given to you. Nobody’s ever going to take your word for it. I know mine because I bought a test off of Amazon. I was curious. Honestly I didn’t know my blood type til I joined the military. Yes but only because of the military. I dont know any civilian who knows theirs unless they ever had a reasonmedical condition. Definitely. Ive known since childhood but have no idea how or why I knew that when so young. I know mine because the military… also can’t donate because of the military. I know mine. I know mine. I’m a regular blood donor so yes I know my blood type. If I weren’t a regular donor I would not. But also I don’t know why you need to know. If there’s an emergency the hospital isn’t going to rely on you telling them your correct blood type. They’ll test you if they have time and if they don’t they’ll give you O. Universal donor here. So I know O negative. I grew up with a grandmother who said it was important that I know it for some reason 🤷🏽‍♀️ Ive always known that I was O neg. My ex knew he was O pos. My kids know theirs. I just assumed everyone knew. Every single member of my immediate family is O. I have always been confused when medical or detective TV shows call that a rare type. I always have and it seemed really weird to me that my husband doesn’t but I guess he’s the norm. I grew up just knowing it as an emergency fact” you should have on hand even though in an ideal situation they’ll be able to find out quick. Ive seen some people here saying that its not that important for you to know because no doctor is going to transfuse you without a test anyway and that bit is true but I could have lost my second pregnancy or had a very very sick newborn if I hadnt known I was Rhnegative. Both when I lost my first pregnancy and when I had early bleeding with my second I had to ask about Rhogam. I do think this was a hopefully uncommon failure on the part of my medical teams but my son turned out to be O+ and if I hadnt known about Rh incompatibility he could have ended up with Rh disease. I’ve known mine since childhood because my dad liked to joke that us Rh neg girls should be nuns. I know my kid’s and by process of elimination I know what his dad’s is. I think his dad knew from donating anyway. At least some of my siblings also did the blood typing card experiment in school. Post 80 How pervasive is fear of child abduction in the USA? I saw a what would you do” video where a man was speaking to a child who had lost her parents and at least everyone who filmed acted very suspicious of him. I kind of didn’t think he was that suspicious he was offering to help her etc. Maybe if he was walking her to the van I’d have taken the registration plate and any back van door opening would have raised a real alarm but is this really something normal Americans and not the Qanon types expect to be happening in any random town in broad daylight? The actual rate of this kind of abductions is apparently only 115 a year. Stranger Danger was a very productive and pervasive ad campaign back in the 80s with ripples for decades after. Nowadays its more known that relatives not strangers are more likely to actually abduct a kid but its still weird for a random adult to speak to a child in a way that would make the common passerby suspicious. I have to say when I was a kid the real life examples of child abduction taking up so much news coverage especially when their white and blonde Elizabeth Smart really sticks out for me really affected me. I was often paranoid many nights someone would abduct me from my bed or perhaps while walking home from school. In reality child or adult abduction especially by a stranger is super super rare in the US. But as a kid you see stuff about it all over the news and it’s hard to understand that the risk of the thing happening is *not* reflective of how much it’s focused on in our culture. I also feel like the increased popularity of True Crime as a genre has led to a lot folks women in particular experiencing increased hyper vigilance to these types of things. For instance you see a lot of women paranoid about being abducted from a parking lot and sex trafficked but the fact is that it is just not the way traffickers go about finding their victims. Typically they target vulnerable young people with bad home lives or who are trying to survive on their own and start dating them” but it’s really grooming them and the target often doesn’t realize what’s happening until it’s too late. Sadly Americans responded to some highly publicized kidnappings in the 80s by teaching children who are now adults that strange men are likely to run off with kids. The truth is its usually a relative or family friend. But people are so suspicious of men around children Ive seen stories of airline workers trying to separate men from their own children and random men at the park getting the police called on them simply for being in the park. The fear? Pretty common. The reality? Not as common pretty rare. But thats true with everything that Americans are afraid of. Extremely and people WILL NOT believe the statistics that crime is down. We’re in a very weird time. People call the police about kids walking to school alone two blocks it’s pretty alarming how worried parents can imagine the worst possible outcomes. You should see my local Facebook feed in BFE Tennessee. Almost weekly some middle aged Karen is sharing a story about how she or her kid was nearly sex trafficked” because she was at the Walmart and saw a brown man. Did you know he was in the clothing section and then she saw him again before she left? And she saw another one outside? Clearly up to something. These posts get thousands of likes and comments about how dangerous things are. And there’s always this subtle implication that they” are really working for the deep state/Democrats/illegals. This isn’t Q people. These are normal Americans who are afraid of their own shadow. It’s mostly thanks to sensationalized media stories of children being abducted in decades prior. It gives the conception that these types of things are common and basic parenting skills like making sure you know where your kid is often devolves into helicopter parenting for some because of it. Its pretty widespread and getting worse. Fewer and fewer parents are willing to let their kids do things independently these days because their afraid something terrible will happen to them. It is a very common concern. In a lot of places it’s totally taboo for kids to be outside unsupervised for fear they’ll be abducted. Pretty much everyone is taught not to even speak to strangers as a kid and that’s very heavily emphasized. Im in a small rural town it doesnt exist we average like 2 crimes per year here lol We still got free range 10 year olds running around everywhere America has been obsessed with stranger danger for as long as Ive been alive as noted that sorta doesnt really happen. Abduction in the United States can pretty much be accurately described as 100% Noncustodial parental abduction and a margin of error. But us here in the United Bald Eagles of Assault Rifles love us the idea of the random child snatcher. it is much more pervasive than it should be because child abduction is a vanishingly rare crime and 99 percent not a real statistic are related to custody disputes I think its something parents are wary of and thats reasonable. An unreasonable fear we had growing up was that psychos were giving out dangerous Halloween candy. The whole point of What Would You Do is to have someone do something inappropriate and see if people step in. I just saw the video you probably mean and the guy is trying to convince a little girl to let him take her out of the area and she repeats that shes scared that she doesnt know him and that she feels uncomfortable. If this all sounds fine to you you probably need to be a bit more suspicious of people. It is incredibly pervasive and it is relatively new. Even when I was a kid in the eighties and nineties children playing outside unsupervised and going on short trips around their neighborhood like places within a one mile radius like a park library or store was completely normal it may not have been this way everywhere but nobody in my urban neighborhood including friends parents store clerks or librarians thought anything of it. Now there is a real risk of someone calling the police for things that were entirely acceptable a generation ago like letting a child go to the playground alone. Not everyone is actually on board with the idea that stranger abduction is a significant risk but the risk of child protective services getting involved is enough that most people err on the side of caution. Its also true that this cultural change means there are not large groups of other children to play with and that adults are not in the habit of looking out for unaccompanied children as a community as that video shows even offering assistance to or even just talking to a child alone could stir suspicion. And new neighborhoods are less likely to be designed in pedestrian and bike friendly ways that make them accessible to kids. So in that regard it really is less safe for kids to be out on their own now. The origin of all this fear is the disappearance of Etan Patz in 1979. It was incredibly sensationalized and it led to ongoing news coverage of similar disappearances. Although in absolute numbers these cases are incredibly rare and most kidnappings are custodial disputes between family members the disproportionate news coverage stranger abductions received made them loom large in the public consciousness. There is definitely a widespread fear of abductions and all kinds of child victimization. Media attention since the 1980s has created hysteria about these kinds of things. As you say the incidence is very low compared to the helicopter parenting that families feel backed into. There have been social scientists and writers who have explained how this culture of fear has actually adversely impacted American life and the childhoods of American kids. Places like Reddit where people speak about the US as becoming more dangerous has also not been helpful so I really appreciate your post. Unreasonably pervasive. People would be better served if every vehicle and pedestrian accident that reaulted in death or serious injury were reported on as thoroughly. As a man with no children I basically dont interact with children at all unless they specifically request help from me. I might if the child appeared to be in real danger which isnt something I really encounter daytoday. The danger of being labeled a creep is too high despite if I have wellmeaning intentions. I carefully instructed my kids not to go near any windowless Ford Econoline van for anything less than a kingsized Snickers bar. Anybody giving out Milk Duds DESERVES to be wearing the ratty old clown suit. There is a fear but I think it really depends on where you live. I live in a smaller town of about 8k people and kids run feral around my whole neighborhood. They interact with the adults in the neighborhood a lot and I just keep an eye out. Its not uncommon to see kids just roaming around town at all ages and they are usually in packs. They go door to door fundraising for school/teams and are always riding bikes and playing ball in the street. Its really no different than when I was a kid. Im 29 and I grew up in the same neighborhood and basically was a latchkey kid. There were enough people around who knew who I was that there wasnt a real worry. Hell I was left alone for days by the time I was 12. I would have no issues with my kids running around as long as they have a buddy. It is true that kidnappings happen but Ill be honest a lot of the Amber Alerts I get in my area are parents/family taking their own kids from other family members. And I rarely see those. I do believe in teaching stranger danger and making sure they understand red flags but Im not scared enough to lock them in the house. It basically never happens but people think it happens like 100000 times an hour Its everywhere. If youre a man and around kids and youre not one of their parents people look at you suspiciously. Kids cant go run around and play outside anymore without direct supervision. People have even been arrested just for letting their kids play in the park across the street from them. I just heard of some parents getting arrested for being at a restaurant in eyesight of their kids while they played in a pool and one of the kids was even a teenager watching the younger ones. It is absolute batshit insane. Child abductions are extremely rare but we get amber alerts for abductions like every day and like 99.999% of the time its a custody dispute between family members. people are very paranoid…that being said…if i was in the situation u describe in this post i would definitely try to intervene BEFORE the kid gets into a van with a strange man not after lol Its not as pervasive in the news as it was in the 80s but the impact it has had on childhood appears to be permanent. When I was running around in the 70s and early 80s nobody thought anything of letting kids go out around the neighborhood on their own certainly by 10 or 11. It was weird if you didnt. Now we just dont. Everything has become much more structured. It is rare but a few highly publicized cases got our attention and that was all it took to instill fear. Nevermind that every other week was a movie or afterschool special about it and later the true crime documentary machine made lots of money revisiting these few famous abductions. I believe it correlates strongly with how much someone watches the major US news networks. When my nowgrown son was about four his preschool had a stranger danger session. We were the only parents who didnt allow the kid to do it. I figured if the kid got lost a stranger would be far more likely to help him than not. I told him to not go anywhere with anyone if his grownup didnt say it was ok because we would worry about him and be sad just like if he couldnt find us. That was enough. Weve had instances of kids lost in the desert who hid from potential rescuers because they were taught to fear any adult they dont know. I wasnt buying it. Older kids sure maybe. My sister takes at least one picture of her girls everyday in case something happens and she needs to remember the last thing they were wearing. Its a big fear for many Throughout the 1990’s and 2000’s FOX ran a show called America’s Most Wanted” which featured notorious wanted criminals and missing persons. The host of the show John Walsh had lost his own son Adam who was abducted by a serial killer in 1981. While this show was very successful in helping bring public awareness to the cases it featured I believe it caused a significant increase in public paranoia about child abductions. Other actual crimes also fed into the paranoia such as JonBenet Ramsey and the West Memphis Three. It was a massive trend in the 90s and 2000s lots of fear mongering. Nowadays its not really a major fear. Obviously its still there and we all teach kids to be safe but its not something most people think about as much as they used to. Somewhat ironically someone actually tried to abduct me as a kid with a white van by offering me to see a puppy. Neighbor ran him off. I was almost kidnapped by a strange man when I was 5 or 6. He drove by my dad’s apartment and saw me and my friend playing by the front door by ourselves. Saw him drive by the first time then he drove around again stopped and asked what we were doing. He drove away again and I told my friend I wanted to go back inside. I told my dad about it so he went outside. The guy drove around a third time and saw my 6’4” ex marine dad waiting for him. He drove of pretty quickly then In my city there was a very tragic case of a 10yearold girl being abducted in broad daylight from her street. Her body was found within hours after witness tips on his vehicle led police to a suspect’s home. The man worked at her school but it was never really established that they interacted there. While yes this is rare it definitely traumatized the public as the news rolled out so quickly from the disappearance to the search to her being found. Pretty big. Stranger danger had us in a chokehold and we are still not over it. We almost had security called at a convention because I asked for and received permission to take a picture with a minor cosplaying my nieces favorite character and a man in his 40s did likewise and then Didnt Leave. So I Didnt Leave. We were both getting increasingly agitated and security was picking up on the vibes when the teenager picked up on it and explained he was her dad. I immediately retracted my claws and he realized why this random middle aged woman wasnt leaving his daughter alone and retracted HIS claws but we were both utterly convinced the other was predatoring this kid and acting accordingly. When I was a kid in the 80s and 90s my mom didnt let my brother and I be *anywhere* alone. She wasnt even comfortable with us biking down to the movies as teenagers. We lived in a very safe slightly affluent part of town where literally nothing ever happened. only 115 a year Thats 115 too many. 600000 people are reported missing every year in the US. Many are found somewhat quickly but too many are never found. I read or heard somewhere that there are 100000 missing people in the US?? I fear it. I was always afraid of this as a child too. When I was growing up in the 1980’s I recall we were taught not to talk to or go with random strangers. They came to the school to tell us about Stranger Danger. If you were lost or needed help you were supposed to go a teacher police officer store clerk or safe” house. Your parents were supposed to have a safe word to give to anyone who might pick you up. There were signs people could put in windows I think to indicate they were safe houses if kids needed help. I don’t know if it is still taught the same way at schools but they did their best to scare kids in the 1980’s and we are the parents grandparents and teachers now. I think stranger men are viewed more suspiciously if approaching kids alone. I dont worry about it all day long. But I can tell a lot of parents are paranoid. The best thing you can do is raise your kids with situational awareness teach them to trust their instincts and know the buddy system. I have four kids and I let them do things alone and within reason for the ages they were in to build confidence on life and making their own decisions. You cannot sequester your kids their entire life and expect them to be able to be adults. They need freedom to make their own choices and mistakes and childhood is when typically the impact can be softer. It seems that the fear has increased a lot in recent years especially among QAnon types but not just among QAnon types. I know a woman who’s constantly worried about her grandkids being abducted or whatever because of the way things are nowadays” and I try to gently let her know that the things she’s worried about aren’t new and were also happening when she was an often unsupervised kid. There’s definitely been an increase in paranoia about that sort of thing. Well.. when my oldest was 7 sitting on my front porch in a very good neighborhood reading a book I ran in to use the bathroom I was very pregnant and as I returned to the porch there was a breaking news event on the TV to report an attempted abduction of a child in a nearby neighborhood that had been reported about 30 minutes prior. As I walked outside I saw the same vehicle described at the curb in front of my porch. And my daughter was on her way down the walkway towards the car. I called her name with alarm and the man hightailed it out of there. I did get the license plate which I immediately reported to be added to the next alert. Ever since I am in a fairly consistent state of fear for my children and now… my grandchildren. It doesn’t help that 5 years ago our 30 year old daughter went missing and was found having been murdered. Look up the facts regarding sex trafficking in the US. It’s actually alarmingly common. I was shopping with my newborn in a stroller and stepped *two steps* away from the stroller when a stranger told me I had better keep one hand on the stroller or else someone will take the baby. I know it was wellintentioned but people really are paranoid. I think child abduction/trafficking is more of a problem around teenagers in lowincome areas with gang activity. I know someone whose teenage daughter got trafficked out of state and convinced to prostitute herself. It wasnt like the driveby snatch that people imagine. She got involved in the wrong circles and chatted with a man who convinced her to do it. Its still child abduction. The kid is home now. Her family put out a missing person report to the cops and the police in the other state managed to find her &amp bring her home. The fam is still stressed though. Not long after she came home they found that someone was posting wanted flyers with the daughter on them offering a reward for the kid they suspect that the traffickers put them up. It’s a real fear. Especially in poorer neighborhoods. Young brown girls get abducted and it doesn’t even make the news. It’s very sad and real. Better safe than sorry Absolutely terrified. Kids can’t do anything or go anywhere without adult supervision. My kid wants to go with her friend to the amusement park you now have to have an adult with you at all times. You can’t just drop them off or even be in the park and they ride rides and meet up later. Security will stop your child and if they can’t produce an adult in so long security will take them to the lost children area. We’re not taking under 10 or something we’re talking even 16+. Very pervasive there was a post where a lady wouldnt let her 14 year old walk to the bathroom alone at a restaurant. Its crazy. This new generation is cooked. People think Im crazy because I let my 7 year old play on out street with his friends without me. He knows to come home when street lights are on. I think kids need independence and to learn to exist alone just like how I grew up. These sheltered kids are the ones that die doing dumb shit at 18 in college. If I see a lost kid that kid is not going anywhere until the parents or the cops arrive. I would physically stop anybody who tries to take the kid and give them a ride. Why? I worked in an institution housing predators. What Ive seen Ill never unsee. Crimes of opportunity do happen. Stranger Danger is an obsession in the US. A pedo behind ever bush. Behind the Bastards did a couple of episodes on this phenomenon. Give it a listen if you are interested. Back in the 90s and 2000s it was a pretty big deal. Nowadays it doesnt seem as big of a concern though that may be related to the fact that kids dont seem to go outside beyond their own backyard without their parents as much anymore. A big fear however proper education on it is rare I had a dude walk up to me and ask if I was there alone at a park when I was like 8. Reddit just likes to repeat its usually the relatives all the time Sadly that man was probably viewed with suspicion due to his gender. A woman would not get nearly as much suspicion for trying to help a child. People watch way too much true crime these days. I was very concerned about this when interviewing nanny’s when we lived in Arizona. Much more pervasive than actual child abduction. When my kid was younger it never really was much of a concern because we use this thing called common sense. I think the fear is fairly pervasive and the demonstrable fact that the fear is divorced from reality does not seem to matter to anyone. he was offering to help her etc. My immediate thought would be that hes trying to lower her guard. I know logically that abductions are rare and the majority of abductions are relatives—but if I see an adult man speaking to a child that clearly doesnt know him Id be suspicious. Very. People are insane about it and I don’t mean on macro like people I know are so wildly over protective I think theres a reasonable amount of fear for any child being in danger. But I dont think its that persuasive given how many children I see just wandering around. With the popularity of true crime shows and conspiracy theories I think it’s higher than I’ve ever seen it. Even more so than during the stranger danger days. This was always extremely overblown scare BS. Normal American nonQ anon type here. And Im not gonna lie... my kid is under 2 years and I am constantly surveying everyone around us day and night. I had a tough time postpartum so I am sure that plays into it. Crowded places are particularly tough. Its way more pervasive now than it used to be IMO despite the fact that theres been a huge drop in that type of crime over the last few decades. The TV movie Adam and the case it was based on gave Americans a more or less permanent terror of children being abducted randomly off the street or from a store or park even though it rarely happens. And while the abduction rates are low \~40 year later there are a larger number of children and a larger number of perverts so while the percentage has probably gone down the total number has still gone up. The fear is stupidly common. The reality is that nearly every child abduction is a relative usually a custody dispute. As a parent and grandparent I can say that the fear is absolutely real. Maybe the odds of it happening are slim but the fear is real. Thats why parents are so protective of their kids now. No more go outside until it get dark. And we teach stranger danger as early as our kids can understand it. All it took was the news reports on child abduction. I can name some and those reports altered the way we watch our kids. Extremely pervasive at least in the Boomer/X/Millennial generations. We were heavily propagandized about this in the 80s and 90s. People have referenced *Stranger Danger* While the odds of being abducted by a stranger are slim its never wrong to teach a child that they should never go with someone they dont know. You could never teach the kids about the scenarios that might go with this like looking for a puppy or your Mom asked me to come get you. So a blanket dont go with strangers was easier to teach. Some may even remember more recently when parents would have the stick figures and names on the back window. There was the fear someone would glean your childs name from it and use it to abduct them. It’s a pretty big fear for most parents. While more abductions happen from family members that doesn’t mean it doesn’t happen and children also can be victimized by strangers and even neighbors or other folks they know casually when not being supervised. So even though it’s rare that doesn’t mean a small child alone isn’t at a higher risk and parents tend to err on the side of caution even to a fault. The fear? Not pervasive at all. The reality? Even less. Way too pervasive. Parents are still extremely overprotective of their kids in relation to this particular danger to a degree which I think is very harmful to those kids and to society at large. I feel like when I was a kid in the 80s it was a bit more thought of than now but now you don’t seem to have kids outside as much anymore Theres a pretty big save the children movement in America I am incredibly afraid of it. But I grew up in the satanic panic stranger danger D.A.R.E. just say no era. Massive My home was situated on a major roadway divided 4 lane highway and my daughter caught the bus at the end of our long driveway every morning. One day a guy stopped about 20 feet up from my driveway and started talking to my daughter claiming he was broken down. She was savvy enough to feel skeeved out and came back down the driveway to tell us. By the time I got outside to render assistance” like 3 minutes the guy was gone. We called the police but didn’t have much to report since it was just the observations of a 12 year old. So yeah the danger is real and awareness and diligence should always be exercised. The days I grew up in as a GenXer where we just roamed free all day is long over. I didn’t see the video you were referencing but if I found myself in that position with others around I would reach out to those around me and make it a group effort to help the child out. And when I was a Cub Scout and Boy Scout leader we had I presume they still have what is called two deep leadership” rules. No single adult leader could be alone with any single scout… ever. Very scary and an absolute real problem. I sheltered my kids due to fear of it and I watch my grandchildren religiously. You get tons of urban legends and paranoia around child abduction. Every now and then youll get Facebook rumors about things like if you find a ziptie on your car door handle run away because it means someone is targeting you for kidnapping. Sometimes local police will even promote this kinda thing. People like to pretend that theyre characters in a movie or something I guess. Real kidnappings are almost universally done by people you know already and they almost always involve you voluntarily going somewhere with them. I think it should go without saying that kidnappers arent really interested in laying in wait next to grocery store parking lots waiting for distracted looking mom so they can just run up to shove them into a van or swipe their toddler in broad day light. Real kidnappings also almost universally target already vulnerable populations. Middle class suburban moms have like a family who will notice if they go missing and will look for her. They have money to hire lawyers and investigators. Kidnappers/trafficers go after runaways vagrants immigrants and homeless people. They go after queer kids who get kicked out of their homes. I think it is common enough for businesses to hold lost child drills Thats one of the things we did on employee training day at my last job a long with fire and tornado drills I know the Stranger Danger is overblown. But I also know my kids. My oldest usually stuck close to us and was an indoor kid by preference. I worry about my youngest less so since he’s well caught up on speech but he was nonverbal for a while. But he’s a friendly nevermetastranger sort. Disabled kids are more vulnerable to abuse since they can’t advocate for themselves easily. Younger one is nearly 15. Now my worries are more make sure he’s not falling down Andrew Tate rabbit holes and keep an eye on game chats” but the low level fear doesn’t really go away. Hell my big kid is 24 and I still worry about trafficking she’s big into the con scene but never goes alone. It was sort of a thing back when i was a kid but it got worse as it kept going. Heck i was a feral kid as much as everyone else during that time. As long as you were home by the time the street lights came on you were good. There was no cell phones your mom never really knew where you were she just guessed. No one tried to kidnap me and what would they get? its not like i was some kind of Rockefeller kid i have a blue collar worker as a father he had maybe 100 if he was lucky. The rise of true crime shows the internet in general and back in the day stuff like Unsolved Mysteries have heightened the awareness of abductions. Similar stuff was going on in the 60s 70s 80s and 90s it just didnt get the same exposure it does now. Our parents were just more unaware of the dangers thus we ran free. Now days most parents are fairly paranoid about leaving their children roam the neighborhood. That said still to this day most abductions are done by family estranged dads moms etc. The fear for Americans isn’t the actual action of abductions it’s the fact that most children do not survive abductions. A lot of children that are abducted are immediately killed after the abductor has harmed them. It’s rare that a child is kept alive. In America it’s rare that an abducted child who wasn’t taken by family members will actually resurface alive. When a child is taken it is statistically proven that they only survive a certain amount of time after being abducted. The bystanders gives that suspicious reaction because they know that if it’s actually a real abduction and the child doesn’t know the person there is a very small window to do something about it and act fast because statistically children do not survive abductions like this. This means with the what would you do” scenario those people are taking it seriously because they know the second the child is out of their sight their fate is basically sealed. Single loner men are inherently dangerous is what is taught. I like the WWYD when the woman is beating on her husband and no women stop her. The fear is great thanks to the 80s messaging. It endlessly frustrates me that people are so concerned about the suspicious stranger and the not the people in their lives who are actually predatory. I definitely had encounters with sketchy men as a prepubescent kid in the burbs. 3 that I can remember where I was out on bikes with friends etc. But I also have way more memories of sketchy authority figures. By and large its family clergy teachers coaches even some of my dads work acquaintances ugh etc. but people dont want to believe it. Its more for men that look a certain way in my experience. Ive eaten lunch at the same park almost my entire life since I was in high school. I like how lively it feels there it has a nice set of tables next to a playground with a great view of a beautiful lake. Its a public area right next to the road and a grocery store so its not like its off the beaten path or anything. When I was younger and fit my high school and college days and shortly after no one cared overlymuch. Id eat enjoy watching the ducks swim and the kids play read a book and head back to work. Now that Im in my 30s and put in some weight people seem to think Im there specifically to steal kids Ive been asked multiple times if I have a valid reason to be there even had a parent ask me to leave when literally all I was doing was reading a book on my lunch break. Its a public park for Gods sake. Happens to a lesser extent when I pick my wife up from work public school PreK teacher but that one Im not as offended by since its private property and they should be watching for suspicious individuals around a school. Anyway got a bit of topic point is people are very protective of their children here and will often make assumptions that fit that frame of reference. Relatives and people who know a child are something like 15x more likely to kidnap than some random passerby. Post 81 Is there really such a thing as a students permanent record or was there at one time? Weve all heard the trope but has it ever actually existed? Yes schools keep records of things like report cards/grades IEPs or 504 plans if that applies attendance records etc that ideally get sent from one school to the next so that say your high school could see how you did in middle school. They wouldn’t go anywhere after the end of high school though at my high school we actually got given our physical permanent record folders after graduation! In the modern era all that is kept online In as much as there are school transcripts? Yes. I would hope these exist in any modern society. As in is there a record somewhere that can be accessed that contains everything you ever did in your life? No. districts will keep records of grades behavior etc that will follow a student as they move through grades and schools within that district but there isnt like a master repository and it wont follow you into adulthood. Yes and no mainly in a school district and absolutely nothing will follow you after graduation but your grades if you decide to go to college I can also tell you that informally.A lot of stuff gets passed between teachers and different schools.Im the child of two teachers and teachers will warn other teachers about bad students behavior wise Reputations will preced you To get a fresh start you need to leave district all together Probably but to what extent? Hit someone with your car? Thats probably going on a permanent record somewhere! It all exists on computers. Every official write up grade etc is part of our school tools system. Along with anything else of note in the note section. Yes. I got a Needs Improvement in my Plays Well With Others in the citizenship section of my report card in the 2nd grade. 30 years later it cost me a promotion at work. Fuck you Mrs. Robertson. There may be a record of you through your time at a school building like in private school from K8 or something. There was never a permanent record that would follow you across school districts and into college. Its a scare tactic for you get kids to behave. Well I am not so sure. A record of all your misdeeds in school? Not so sure. When I went in to get my first covid shot I got a printout of all the shots I have ever had going back to 1965. Where I lived vaccinations were given in school. Nurses from the school district came in and gave the shots. At some point all those records were uploaded into a state vaccination database. So the pharmacist who gave me the shot was able to give me records up to the shots I had a couple years before. Wait Gordon Gano lied to us? I think they *technically* exist but not in a way that ever justifies the old threat in said cliche? Yes lmao school districts keep information about you for better decision making between schools. If you beat kids up in elementary school then beat up a kid your first day in middle school your administration will know youre a problem before you ever sit down. Now its mostly online though. Not in the way its presented on TV BUT when I was in 8th grade and had to register for high school classes my counselor pulled out a gigantic file folder full of various paperwork as well as all my school pictures going back to preschool. I asked my counselor if that was the permanent record Id always heard about and she said yes though that may have been in jest. Homer Simpson found out everything does go on your permanent record. https//youtube.com/shorts/3lZO6U8TQU?si=TEPqDAE98lqTlzCw No. The school keeps some record of you but its not permanent and no other entity will ever see it. The minute you graduate whatever they have on you is irrelevant. I doubt any written personal record even makes it to a new school when you change buildings. There may be but unless you’re applying to work for the CIA they’ll never check those. Same thing with college transcripts. Veteran California teacher here— There ABSOLUTELY IS such a record. It’s called a *cumulative file*. Cum for short which is its own joke though pronounced just like the first syllable of *cumulative*. It’s funnier to see it written. Anyhow it ABSOLUTELY DOES follow you school to school kindergarten through high school. Nobody cares about it unless we’re looking for some kind of information to help explain something about your work abilities or behavior. It contains at a minimum your transcript school portraits from every year proof of residence in the district. It’ll also contain court documents if there are custody issues. If you have special needs sometimes those files will be in there sometimes only a reference to a separate special ed file. Records of parent conferences are often in there but usually not the kind of stuff most people are afraid of. Pulled Sally’s hair” and such. I don’t think I’ve ever seen one even with suspensions listed in it. If you attended school in the juvenile justice system that would be apparent. I usually only look at one if there’s something …off… about a student’s performance or behavior. The ones I feel like I need to look at are usually already thick with previous meetings and attempts to help the kid. Sometimes you can just look at the portraits and see when the parents divorced confirmed by the custody order in the file. Most of the files in the cabinet are nearly empty. I don’t know what happens to them after high school. They don’t follow you to College. there is a school record of shit you have done and it follows you from school to school. i got out of school in 99 so may have changed since i don’t know. i got a peak at my record one time in the 9th grade when it was opened on my principals desk it had details of an incident from when i was in the seventh grade 3 states and 6 schools prior. Yes. Im a public school teacher and I have access to students permanent files. Your grades classes you took standardized test scores any special education evaluations or records IEPs 504s attendance/truancy records behavior/discipline records generally what people may be threatening when they say permanent record are all included in the students permanent file. This starts as soon as the child enters a public school system which could be kindergarten PreK or even as early as infancy for some children with special needs. The file follows the child from school to school even if they move out of district or out of state. There may be other working files with more detailed information/portfolios but those dont necessarily follow the child and are destroyed much earlier often just staying with one teacher. Nope Yes but not in the way you think. Most behavioral issues that go on a permanent record” are usually just documented to follow kids behavioral SAP or IEP plans Sort of but it doesnt follow you outside of school which I think a lot of schools tried to scare us into believing. But it existed. It was permanent in the sense that if you moved to a new school in a new town you werent starting over with a clean slate. There was such a thing but the threat of something being put in there was used more that it actually happened. Teachers talking to each other was how the information got transmitted. I think they took inspiration from the criminal record. Which does get sealed when you turn 18. The permanent record in the district we live in maintains things like grades IEPs attendance records discipline actions etc. as a file that all gets sent from one school to the next from primary/elementary school through high school. This record is primarily used to help with course and class placement of students. Depends on what you mean. You have transcripts. You have a disciplinary record. You have a record of absences. You have records of anything like IEPS. But theyre not going to keep a record of when you talked too much in 7th grade and the teacher made you step outside for a few minutes Depends on what you mean. You have transcripts. You have a disciplinary record. You have a record of absences. You have records of anything like IEPS. But theyre not going to keep a record of when you talked too much in 7th grade and the teacher made you step outside for a few minutes Depends on what you mean. You have transcripts. You have a disciplinary record. You have a record of absences. You have records of anything like IEPS. But theyre not going to keep a record of when you talked too much in 7th grade and the teacher made you step outside for a few minutes. Veteran California teacher here— There ABSOLUTELY IS such a record. It’s called a *cumulative file*. Cum for short which though pronounced just like the first syllable of *cumulative* is still unfortunate. Anyhow it ABSOLUTELY DOES follow you school to school kindergarten through high school. Nobody cares about it unless we’re looking for some kind of information to help explain something about your work abilities or behavior. It contains at a minimum your transcript school portraits from every year proof of residence in the district. It’ll also contain court documents if there are custody issues. If you have special needs sometimes those files will be in there sometimes only a reference to a separate special ed file. Records of parent conferences are often in there but usually not the kind of stuff most people are afraid of. Pulled Sally’s hair” and such. I don’t think I’ve ever seen one even with suspensions listed in it. If you attended school in the juvenile justice system that would be apparent. I usually only look at one if there’s something …off… about a student’s performance or behavior. I’m looking for ways to help not recriminate. The ones I feel like I need to look at are usually already thick with previous meetings and attempts to help the kid. Sometimes you can just look at the portraits and see when the parents divorced confirmed by the custody order in the file. Most of the files in the cabinet are nearly empty. I don’t know what happens to them after high school. They don’t follow you to College. Its something that exists in the sense that schools keep records of their students. Its not particularly important. there is a school record of shit you have done and it follows you from school to school. i got out of school in 99 so may have changed since i don’t know. i got a peak at my record one time in the 9th grade when it was opened on my principals desk it had details of an incident from when i was in the seventh grade 3 states and 6 schools prior. Permanent record? Sure my old school still had my immunization records from back in the 70s. They were able to pull them for me when I needed them about 10 years ago. But those permanent records dont follow you around for the rest of your life. The only thing from school that might matter after graduation is your grades &amp ACT/SAT scores. In NJ student records are archived for 100 years. You have a high school transcript. This is just the average grade for the course every semester two grades one in Dec and one in May/Jun. No public schools record behavioral or disciplinary issues on that transcript. If you transfer from one school to another the receiving school may need to get more information about the courses you are taking and the published rigor of those classes. They dont want to put a student who has never done a major paper into a class where a major paper will be due in a few months for example. You can have a juvenile criminal record... if you are arrested and convicted as a minor. They can be sealed I dont know how often this happens so that youthful stupidity may not cause you trouble the rest of your life. But if the activity remains constant its something that will remain. Once you get into a college the need for high school transcripts are very rare. Mainly some people jobs etc might check to make sure you graduated high school. But once you graduate from an accredited college or university the high school transcript is essentially meaningless and no one will look at it. Half the time the college transcript isnt even needed either. Most jobs will just confirm that you did graduate with your specified major and when. Thats it for most places. Unless the job has very specific needs and you have very specific claims about coursework the use of a college transcript for a job is rare. You would need that college transcript to get into a graduate school. But the graduate school couldnt care less about your high school. Yes its called a cum for cumulative file and if you move it will follow you eventually. My daughter went to a public school until 5th grade a charter school for 6th and 7th and then a smaller private school for high school. When she graduated they gave her the folder and it had her attendance records and grades since kindergarten. Yes its called your cumulative file. Theyre mostly digitized now but they do exist. Dont ask what the shortened name for cumulative file is thats commonly used. As a teacher I could request to look at them. When you graduated we were required to store them for a period of time. Lots of schools and districts have been sued for losing track of them. Every state has a series of statutes discussing school record retention and destruction. In my state they have to be kept in paper files onsite for some specified period before theyre made into microfiche and given to the state to keep in a fireproof vault just in case anyone needed to verify your high school graduation 50 years later and a fire had destroyed all other records and an EMP had destroyed computers. I expect my state statute has updated to allow you to keep those kinds of records in eformat but I know the microfiche requirement is still there. Kinda but not in the way it’s often portrayed to kids lol for example I had a somewhat lengthy disciplinary record in middle school which was forwarded to my high school who promptly enrolled me in some kind of juvenile risk avoidance program” or whatever they called it. But there’s no such thing as a record that follows you through college and your adult life Seen different answers but my district did have records that followed you from preschool to 12th grade. When you graduate either you or your parents recieved it depending if youre 18 or not. Yes but the extent to which a person will ever look at it kind of ends when you graduate high school or get into a college. It’s just a transcript. I was shown mine by the school counselor. It was mostly my report cards. I honestly dont remember what else. They keep records for 5 to 7 years and destroy them after Yes you would have a permanent record at your school. Just like you will have a permanent record at your job when you get one. It doesnt follow you around for life just when you are at that place. Some places may never get rid of the record even after youve left that job. Im a forensic psychologist and part of my job involves getting records for people. Yes records are permanent. I definitely review and consider stuff that happened when an evaluee was in school. On one hand you could call the school district and get your high school transcript. It includes all your classes and all your grade. It probably doesnt contain any discipline records though. Same thing with college/university transcripts. So yeah some things are permanent. But in practice unless you are really at the top of some industry and making really big money only two things really matter. 1. Your performance at your last position. Once you are out of college nobody cares about high school. 510 years in the workforce nobody cares about your college grades. Again unless you are in a really competitive position nobody is going to care. 2. If you really got arrested and convicted of a crime and went through court as an adult? That is something that follows you. And it follows you for a long time 10 years or more. If you did something dumb once you really want to find that plan that ends in the charge being removed from the record so make sure to do the alcohol diversion program anger management or whatever program they want you to do. Probation and community service is nice to stay out of jail but you really want that extra thing that gets that thing dismissed. After that dont push your luck and keep your first time offender at just one offense. There is a record kept of grades attendance etc while you are still enrolled in school. Your transcript might be kept for some years after you graduate. I’m not sure all schools keep them for the same length of time. Maybe if you lived in the same district your entire childhood but as someone who moved towns several times as a kid no they dont even keep your vaccine records. I had to get that fucking MMR shot 5 times as a kid. I’m fairly sure my high school kept/keeps records indefinitely. But I’ve seen my file or at least the version they let me see and it wasn’t that interesting. Just personal/bio data and my transcript. Yes. From kindergarten to graduation from high school there is a curriculum grades and such and behavior record that travels with you. however it isnt nearly as big of a threat as it used to. Back in the day an expulsion or suspension could barely you from certain schools...not an issue these days. I saw mine when I was in high school. Can’t recall why. It was fascinating. Contained writings and drawings right back to first grade. Standardized test results. Every report card. Wish I had it now. In my 40s I was up for promotion and it was neck and neck with someone who had less experience but more certifications. Ultimately I was selected and as part of the promotion they had a background check. I had passed one before so I wasnt worried. Two days after the offer I was met by some people from HR and a legal team. They explained that they had to reconsider my promotion and any future employment with the company because they found out in 5th grade I wrote ASSFART on my math workbook and when told I wasnt as funny as I thought I was I said under my breath. farts are funny tho. This had been in my permanent record and to back it up my old principal who was 95 and now in a wheelchair pointed a shaky finger at me from the corner of the meeting room and said in a hoarse cackle I told you...! I was fired on the spot and as I emptied my desk into a cardboard box none of my former coworkers would even make eye contact. When I got home my wife told me she was going to take the kids and stay with her mom for a while to figure some stuff out. This and other bold lies as probably imagined by some really mean teacher from my childhood. So no my permanent record died when I graduated high school. Christ nobody even cared about my GPA after 18. My daughter just graduated from high school. They gave it to her. 3 schools one district. I think they only keep her name and GPA permanently. Yes but its not a scary thing. Schools keep a cumulative file cume that has all of the official records transcript immunization records proof of address 504 or IEP and records for any major events including discipline. Also copies of letters home about attendance etc. I dont look at the cume unless I am doing an initial IEP a triennial IEP with a record review in lieu of testing or if I am getting red flags from a kid and want to see if theres a pattern. Schools maintain transcripts of students grades which are not deleted and which are provided to more advanced schools when students apply to them. Thats a permanent record. Some schools may also keep records of disciplinary actions. Nope. Its a scare tactic to get unruly kids to behave. Although in University. Your transcripts are important. But before them. Not at all. I got my Permament Record through a FOIA request. Permanent through 12th grade at most. lol no. I tried to get a copy of my SAT scores in order to apply for testing accommodations on the bar exam and neither my high school nor my college had them and college board only keeps them for about five years. I dont think they kept a folder with every documented wrong doing or teacher evaluation. I think mostly the previous years teacher would evaluate you and your next years teacher would read it. Mostly just so the next teacher would know where you struggled and where you excelled so that they could prepare properly. Not in the sense you’re probably thinking but I’ve done data administration and SISstudent information system administration for a long time. There’s a set of records with your grades demographic info medical info learning disabilities and accommodations disciplinary information your free or reduced lunch status and basically anything else the school could possibly know about you. If you transfer schools in k12 there’s a transcript of information used to transfer you that’s pretty much your permanent record. The funny part is disciplinary information doesn’t really follow you which is how it’s portrayed in media. It’s more just your grades and other personal info. States have different laws regarding discipline but many have anti bullying laws etc that require certain discipline issues are reported to the state. It’s not used for tracking you though it’s more just statistics used for budgeting grading the school and seeing if current programs are working out as expected. So yes there’s a permanent record but no it doesn’t really exist in the way media has portrayed it. It’s just information we have on a student kept on a system that is eventually deleted after a certain amount of time to comply with data privacy laws and regulations. Any time you get sent to the disciplinary office/principals office that was added to the record it’s just keeping logs of information. There’s no special line it has to cross to be kept we’re supposed to always keep it all on record. Most of it is due to state mandated record keeping and for reporting purposes it’s not like the state would ever contact us about a kid with a bad discipline record. However certain things like attendance could trigger investigations due legal issues like truancy. Its a real thing but its not like what the media says. Youre permanent record is something that follows you permanently through your school career. So no college isnt going to be looking at your permanent record and saying that you cant be accepted because in the first grade you had a problem with pinching the other kids. But your second grade teacher well see that you had a problem pinching the other kids and be on the lookout for that. And that data from the permanent record can be passed on to a counselor or used for a scholastic evaluation if you need special services. Yes and no. I’ve looked pretty closely at some of them and it’s just a file room in an HR employees office. I work at a K12. In Michigan were required to keep it for 99 years or the life of the student. Yes there is a permanent record. In most states it includes a de facto standard form or folder called the CA60. It includes basic demographic information name DoB race gender proof of residency photocopy of some proof of identity a list of schools and dates of attendance any grades the student has any standardized tests and it may include disciplinary records. Disciplinary records are typically only for students that have an expulsion or severe infraction. Proof of residency and identity are typically discarded when you leave the district. The CA60 is essentially what gets sent to a newly enrolling school district. An expulsion may permit that district to refuse enrollment in some cases. The proof of identity is explicitly prohibited to be sent to the new district and the new district is required to discard it as a part of the Missing Children Act. Once you graduate almost everything short of the dates of attendance date of graduation and proof that you met both state and board approved grad requirements can be discarded. When I was K12 19892002 there were such things at both school districts I attended one on Tennessee and the other in Oklahoma. The schools did sometimes threaten kids with the concept of something going on yoyr permanent record. But there were two things they didnt tell us. First nothing but identifier were on your permanent record though things were *in* it because it was a file folder. Second when went to collect our last grades and pick up our diplomas they handed them to us. I remember thinking *This* is what you were threatening us with all these years?! i bit people and beat up kids and cut clothes in elementary and they sure did bring that up in high school I don’t know about how it works in the rest of the country but in the Southwest you get a big Manila file handed to you on each kid at the start of the year as a teacher that contains behavioral issues / report cards / medical information that’s sometimes called a ‘*permanent record*’. You’re supposed to read all of your cumulative folders and sign a document saying you did because it importantly tells you if they are allergic to bees or have asthma which is obviously potentially life threatening information to not know. Yes its a reference to your criminal record and your school record. Not exactly. There is a record of you in that school district but most of it gets destroyed ~5 years after graduation save for your transcript grades and SpEd info. They store that in case you need it in the future but no one else can access it. Yes and no. I work in academic records. Most documents have a retention schedule but some things are actually permanent. Transcripts and class rosters are permanent. Thankfully I grew up before computerized records. Its probably safe to assume any records on me were destroyed. Ive seen what a county governments archive looks like. Yes there is a permanent record. First time I visited that kind of facility I was in graduate school and that is precisely what the archive staff told the visiting graduate students yes a permanent record is a real thing. Yes there is such a thing. It is far less permanent than the name would have you believe though. It follows you throughout your time in grade school. Once you are graduated from high school no one checks that record anymore. The closest they will do is the high school transcript. However your criminal record for crimes committed in a manner that are tried as an adult are permanent record sort of things. These will follow you for the rest of your life. The district I went to had permanent records that got shredded when students graduated and all they kept was summary information. My mother worked for the district and appropriated mine and gave it to me. The was from the early 1980s Ask the records office in your district. They definitely keep transcripts going back decades and I think they have some legal obligations to keep some behavior and attendance data for a certain period of time but how they do this varies and I think things get shredded after a certain time other than transcripts. I download a grades attendance and behavior archive each spring and once in awhile something is asked for within a few years. That is a school based record. In public schools a record of each student is maintained Well yeah but it just sad your name your parent’s name and contact info and MAYBE if you have any relevant medical conditions or allergies or and any extra learning programs or accommodations you need but that’s probably more than most have in detail. Usually its from kindergarten to 8th grade. 9th grade starts high school here and then it usually starts off as a blank slate unless youve done something pretty heinous. I remember when I got into high school they gathered us all in an auditorium and gave us a long speech about how everything we did until now was in the past. That from High school til college we could undo anything wed screwed up but that it could work in the other direction too. If we messed up then it would be PERMANENT permanent. Gotta say I’m still butthurt about those piece of shit teachers gaslighting us. Post 82 Is it safe to say American culture is one of the best countries in the world to be a nurse? Author PureChampionship3993Post Text I feel American culture tends to be more appreciative of nurses compared to other cultures such as China or Singapore Nurses in the US certainly get paid WAY more than anywhere else on earth. We appreciate nurses. We also work them like a rented mule. My sister is a nurse. Shes scheduled for 12 hours shifts that frequently turn into 14+ hours and she doesnt usually get a meal break. Sure as far as pay goes. Maybe culturally sure. Working conditions are another story. Most nurses do get paid decently well but because of chronic staffing shortages are often overworked. Breaks and lunches are often skipped vacation time is often hard to come by. Of course this can depend by region state city hospital etc. From a pay perspective sure but most nurses are overworked and approaching burnout. My cousin is in the Burn unit ICU and it’s certainly been mentally and physically draining. For wages? Yes. For mandatory overtime or staffing shortages? Not so much. Obviously it also varies a lot by setting. My friends who are school nurses like their jobs much more than long term care/nursing home nurses I know. I remember talking to an Irish immigrant woman who was a nursing home RN and she couldnt comprehend how poor conditions were there there was really no equivalent to it in her birth country she said to that sort of facility. In many parts of the world where healthcare is Nationalized or Socialized the pay is typically lower because people costs are a huge amount of the cost. American Healthcare professionals wishing for a UK NHS model forget that Single Payer often means Single Employer. Nurses in the USA get paid more. But to be fair so do STEM and many other roles. My wife is a nurse and looking at NHS payscales she would need to be a Matron or Consultant to earn similarly. Though the vastly higher income tax rates and national 20% sales tax VAT wouldnt leave much afterwards. No. I mean I cant compare being a nurse in other countries because I only did it here in the US. I will say that because of the capitalist system in place employers try to get more work out of fewer nurses and cheap out on supplies and assistive personnel. It is hugely stressful and when things get worse nurses are expected to do more. While there is a ton of research establishing how important nurses are to patient outcomes theyre still treated like well like all female dominated professions Like servants without full brains a lot of the time. The younger generations talk all the time about stereotypes about how only mean girls go to be nurses which is heartbreaking because its just simply not true and I think it must be very discouraging to the kind people who would like to be nurses. And then theres the sexy nurse porn and the sexy nurse Halloween costumes.... you might think thats respectful but I dont. Until we eliminate the profit motive from healthcare and start establishing policy based on science rather than sexism nursing is going to be a shit job. I just read an article about nurses on the night shift at a hospital who work a 12 hour shift can’t leave by law until their relief arrives and are advised to wear diapers in case they don’t get a bathroom break. I don’t know how it is in other countries but you couldn’t pay me enough to be a nurse. In some states it’s illegal for them to go on strike. Nurse pay while could potentially bring you into a new tax bracket if you come from a poor background depends entirely where you live and the cost of living of where you live. Nurses cost a hospital money. Nurses do not bring in money. Because America is capitalistic hospitals will try their best to minimize nursing expense vs their profits. Hospitals purposefully understaff claiming nursing shortage when there isnt one. They purposefully ride the line of patient safety with nurse to patient ratios and when something goes wrong they are free to toss Nurses under the bus for it. Nurses are also the stuck middleman whos existence is to attempt to carry out doctors orders but simultaneously take the brunt of verbal and physical abuse from patients and family members when care or 5 star luxury hotel standards dont meet their expectations. Nurses are very appreciated in the U.S. not sure about the other countries. My brother and sister were/are nurses for years and they enjoy it. I would say yes. Because our medical system is so expensive to run they are paid well. In terms of appreciation nurses don’t get half of the appreciation they deserve. Someone could be giving birth and the nurses would be the actual people laboring with the patient while the doctor only drops in when the woman is ready to push. Nurses handle most of the physical and emotional labor in the entire facility. No nurses are not treated good and in the south they are not paid great. In the hospital near me there are not nearly enough staff. Which leads to nurses being overworked and poor patient care. My mom was a nurse in the south for 30 years and made 60k a year. If she worked elsewhere the pay would have been better. Nurses are very unhappy in the U.S. There is a shortage and they tend to have to work a lot of overtime. That said they do get paid pretty well. Id say each culture has their challenges for the position ranging from appreciation in Singapore to working 80 hour weeks and having contract disputes in Pennsylvania. Whats best? It depends on the criteria. Depend on the location Going by pay yes without a doubt. See how much/little NHS nurses and doctors!! get paid if you want to feel some pity. Thats a negative OP Im willing to bet that a 1/3 of the US population that doesnt have medical training believe they know more than any RN. We pay Nurses well cause we need them our population is aging out but we dont treat them well at all. Being a nurse in India or Pakistan is absolutely awful.... Lol if you ask Reddit Nurses are the scum of the Earth and the worst people end up becoming nurses. Every professions has bad apples for sure but while nurses get a lot of love in this country especially since Covid a lot of people dont like them. Lol no. Working conditions are pretty bad. Even in the better places theres problems because there is no federally and few state mandated ratios which is dangerous for patients and staff. Breaks in many locations are an on paper kind of thing. The respect is also surface level it doesnt translate to reality. Nurses are often screamed at berated called all sorts of things kicked punched. I know more than one thats been stabbed. Is it worse in other places absolutely in some Im sure. Could it better here? Theres no reason it shouldnt already be. Yes but to be fair thats true for nearly every profession. Depends on whats good culture to you... Nurses here get assaulted a lot. Its one of the most dangerous jobs in the country. Also many/most nurses are staffed to too many patients and cant do as good of a job as they would otherwise. The medical industry in the US tend to chew up and spit out a lot of its employees. It can be gruelling. 😩 No clue No one culture is the best”. No matter what the culture is it where you live there are trade offs. You need to find the place that works best for you and your situation. Also it is unlikely that people living and working in one country will have an accurate view of what it would be like to have the same job elsewhere. Compared to the rest of the world nurses in the US are well paid. However there’s significant variation quality of life/pay/worker protections between states with strong union presence compared to antiunion states. Any nurses I know would say they love their job they’re paid well but in today’s climate it’s a tough gig. A lot of them got really burnt out during Covid for a myriad of reasons and this new regime isn’t helping. Appreciation or safety? Nurses face some violence in some hospitals in the US. Code grey does happen. It’s funny reading this and then in another subreddit read about how Americans don’t have a culture of their own. The pay is good for sure but nurses work their asses off for that money too. I am not sure how the level of work they do compares to other countries though. Over the last few years things have been getting worse and worse. The rest of the country stopped caring about COVID but the healthcare system still hasn’t recovered. People are overworked and burnout is a major problem. We’ve also seen in recent years a dramatic increase in violence against healthcare workers. We had protestors” at my hospital who claimed we were intentionally killing people and assaulted multiple staff and visitors. My girlfriend is Japanese and she’s a nurse. She came to the US to get a masters in nursing and has worked here for a couple years. The pay is better than what she was making in Japan but the culture has thoroughly exhausted her and she’s not interested in working here any more. The pay cut is worth the improved quality of life of returning home for her. Absolutely NO! I have several nurses in my family. From what Ive seen and heard the pay is best but the work environment can be rough at least in hospitals. My aunt quit to become a public health nurse even though it paid way less. Sisterinlaw got a masters degree so that she could be some sort of a ward supervisor and honestly I think to get revenge on other nurses who treated her badly through tyranny. I have the feeling that in other countries it is a bit more of a relaxed profession. You can tell how valued they are because of all the available nurse porn that is created. Dont let the Chinese know. Theyll flood the workforce and bring down wages. Define better. I know nurses who really care and find they health care system here horrific and it makes their lives difficult emotionally Nurses in America are wellrespected and paid well. Many are also very welleducated with BS &amp BSN degrees. Yes and no. Tons of money a well respected job but overworked and understaffed therefore a lot of burnout. I don’t know how it is in other counties but nurses get paid well here it is considered a very good career. Absolutely for pay and the best equipment. Cant be any worse than here in little New Zealand where they are drastically under funded and under paid. I mean medical professions being wildly overpaid is a significant part of why the cost is so high for patients. Publicly funded healthcare systems cant afford to pay doctors and nurses as much as the u.s. for profit system. Its part of the socialized medicine sees a lot of brain drain. They all want to come to the united states of scamming sick people. American healthcare is big. European healthcare is the medical equivalent of free lunch at American schools. **Is it safe to say American culture is one of the best countries in the world to be a nurse?* No. *I feel American culture tends to be more appreciative of nurses compared to other cultures such as China or Singapore* Is this a circlejerk post? Not with how much of an issue violence against healthcare workers has become When I found out how much nurses are paid in the UK I was literally dumbfounded. I don’t understand how paying people who are responsible for daily healthcare chump change is acceptable. Im not a nurse and have never needed to see one in any of the other countries Ive been to so I have absolutely no clue lol. But all the nurses ive been helped by here snd who take care of my mom have been great so yes Im very appreciative of them. Doc here. In general the medical field overall is held in pretty high esteem. As it should be given the sacrifice that goes into it and how much it takes you away from your family. I had a 4yearold during COVID. Very tough age to miss out on because those will be his first memories of me. Unfortunately a certain movement in politics we all know who has sowed doubt into the integrity of our profession. And now a good chunk of Americans think were out to brainwash and poison people. a nurse in Washington or California specifically yes. a nurse in rural america at the only ED in an 50mile radius? not so great To answer your question in relation to China yes they are! The scope of practice is wider in the US so nurses are more regarded for their contributions to patient care. In terms of pay yes. Otherwise I wouldnt know. Nurses are rated one of the most highly trusted/respected professions in the US. They are also the most likely to be assaulted at work. Pay varies a lot by state/region like 100%+ variance for similar roles but is generally well above what other nations pay. It depends on what level of nursing. Registered Nurses are generally well paid but Licensed Practical Nurses do the grunt work for modest pay. It didn’t used to be. Back in the 80s and 90s when my mom worked as one nurses were paid low wages for the skilled work they did. There is an ongoing personnel crisis in that field so they had to start paying a lot better. That said pay is better but it is still a very stressful thankless job. Just as a casual observer nurses work long hours changing shifts are highly stressed have to deal with American doctors that think they are God’s gift to the world not all but many. Many are overweight and smoke. It’s a tough job but in the US in some areas they are highly paid. They are paid quite well relative to their education have endless employment opportunity basically anywhere in the country and are also a well respected profession. They get paid fairly well but are over worked and recently at risk of being sued. The USA is very litigious. Post 83 My fellow Americans what do you consider a business” major? Whenever this topic comes up Im personally confused. Some people will exclude some majors such as finance or accounting but some people will include those types of majors. Do we have a concrete definition of what fields fall under the umbrella of business major? Business degrees say Business in them its pretty clear. Anything that fell under the College of Business at my University. That included accounting finance and even marketing separate from Advertising which was in the College of Communications. If youre getting a BBA and/or are in a college of business youre a business major. Universities are broken up into various colleges which are the organizational units that determine what courses are required for specific degrees. These are typically College of Arts College of Sciences College of Business College of Nursing College of Law etc. All degrees offered by the College of Business are business majors. This will include finance or accounting but also Business Administration Human Resources Marketing International Business etc. Depends on where you go. Some people are business majors and some majors fall under a business school. If its in a school they usually have accounting marketing finance info systems international business and things like that. If your major fell under the College of Business then its a business major. Usually Business Admin Marketing Finance Accounting Management and anything related to them make up most business roles. Anything that ends up earning you a BBA Most people who say they’re business majors while in school are lumping everything together because they know they want to study business but are still narrowing down their major while going through the business acumen courses. Most people who graduated or are in a major will be more specific. Accounting and finance fit in the broad category of business majors because it was awarded by the school of business. Some universities will include those in their college of business some will have it in another academic unit. Thats really all there is to it. Some schools have a designated major called Business. Maybe not every school. whatever falls under the College of Business at the University My business degree says business” on it. I worked at a large public university business college these are the undergrad majors offered 1. Accounting 2. Actuarial Sciences 3. Corporate Innovation and Entrepreneurship 4. Finance 5. Management 6. Management Information Systems 7. Marketing 8. Real Estate 9. Risk Management 10. Supply Chain &amp Information Systems Literally business degrees BBA MBA. Finance is finance accounting is accounting. A business degree is generally a bit more broad because you’ll take a finance course and an accounting course program depending but you’ll also take management courses HR courses etc. Again it’s going to vary between schools but a business degree will give you a broader understanding of business activities whereas an accounting degree for example will focus on mathematics and advanced accounting practices. You’re not going to take an HR course in an accounting program. I don’t think we do. Anyone I know that studied accounting or finance would say I studied accounting/finance.” And people in related fields but still within a school of business say stuff like marketing.” The only time I hear I am/was a business major” is when it’s just a general business degree. But obviously you’re getting other comments that say anyone studying a businessrelated degree is a business major so 🤷 A business major is someone who majors in business administration. Finance is just a type of business subject that’s more focused. It’s like saying someone majored in mathematics vs someone who majored in calculus A business major is a business major. Like the ones titled business” If your degree says business its business. Finance and accounting do not say business. Some school only offers a generic Business” major in which case things are selfexplanatory. Many others have a College of Business that offer majors like Accounting Management Marketing Finance Operations etc. Those are also business degrees. Anything done in the school of business or a degree that has the word business in it. I’d say anything major in the College of Business at the university. As someone with an electrical engineering degree I’d say anything degree that is offered in the College of Engineering made someone an engineering major. I would say degree program that is housed in a University’s College of Business”. That could mean accounting finance risk management management marketing logistics/supply chain management just about anything directly business related or that has management” in the name. There are a few majors I would consider on the fence like economics data analytics certain IT degrees. Those could go either way depending on the program like at my school Economics was considered a social science rather than a business degree. What are you confused about? A business degree is a business degree. Just like a computer science degree is a computer science degree. Finance and Accounting are also different degrees. Universities have colleges” within the system and decide where majors land within that. Example I have an advanced degree in Communication which you would think is in the college of Humanities but it’s in the college of business. No one would suspect that by looking at the title of my MS degree. My thesis required a grasp of statistics and required actual research so maybe that’s why? A business degree in the us usually entails courses in marketing finance accounting and other areas that pertain to business middle/upper management. I wouldn’t be surprised if some entry level psych courses were included. Graduates tend to on to work at larger businesses and corporations. Like they might intern at AIG out of college and then hope for a job offer at the end. Not all countries have an equivalent to this program. In a lot of places you just study finance or marketing or accounting etc and then learn other skills on the job.it has a lot to do with how our university programs are structured. They are not as specialized as they are elsewhere. You can go to any universitys website and look for the School of Business to find what falls under it. I cant imagine anyone leaving out finance or accounting. The only one I know that doesnt fall under the Business umbrella is Economics as I believe thats a social science that falls under the College of Arts and Sciences. Accounting Finance Marketing and Risk Management Then all those subjects that have some combo of management or business” in the title like Business Admin Business systems international business business analytics etc Any degree that is attained through a universitys business school I was a Computer Science major. My university also offered a Computer Information Systems degree which was similar but had less focus on math and more focus on business. So Id consider that at least businessadjacent. Well as an engineer prerry much any major that isnt engineering medical or science not including social science. Business management or finance. Marketing and accounting are both under business too but I feel like people just say marketing or accounting. My major Information Science was under the College of Business at my University. I took courses in the 5 major business disciplines Accounting Economics Finance Marketing Management In addition to my main courses Information Science. I have no idea where it falls these days. A business major is a business major. An accounting major is an accounting major. They may be in th÷ same department but different majors. Many colleges/universities have a business program / business school thats separate from the general arts &amp sciences/liberal arts programs. For example the university I addended has an undergraduate business program that issues BBA degrees vs. the liberal arts majors getting a BA or BS. So somebody who gets a degree from the business school/business program has a business degree. Typically the programs might be things like business administration marketing finance accounting entrepreneurship. Anything in a universities business college. I have two business degrees finance and accounting were both definitely under the college of business along with economics management marketing information systems etc. Business majors are the ones who are pursuing a business degree. There are also business departments or schools of business that include other related majors such as accounting or finance. Finance and accounting were in the college of business at my university so I’d consider those business majors. Just as I’d consider English and cultural anthropology to be liberal arts as they were both in the liberal arts college. Maybe some schools define it differently. At my university there was only one primary business major it had a fancy name but it was the business major. As part of that we had to take classes in all those subjects but could choose a concentration such as finance or accounting to focus deeper. No matter the concentration you got the same degree. Business Majors are accounting marketing finance and economic. The either have business in the name or are taught by the universitys college of business which groups all the business degrees together. Im not sure there is a clear cut definition. At the masters level its almost certainly talking about an MBA masters of business administration. This is sorta the default degree for upper levels of leadership and csuite executives at companies. In many universities business schools will offer a BBA Bachelor of Business Administration. In my university if you were in the business school that was the only major you could take. I would say things like management risk professional communication and some law. Basically anything related to business operations. Then again I wasnt a business major or anything close to it. Just what I think of when I hear it. At my school a business degree was a multidisciplinary major that covered a little bit of each area of business accounting finance marketing management science HR ethics information systems etc. We also had the option to choose a concentration in a specific area but that point students tend to just change their major to specialize in one area. It all fell under the umbrella of the College of Business but each specialization had its own distinct major. Im confused that youre confused. If they major in business. Thats literally what the major is called. Theyre part of the business college at the university they go to and their degree is a business degree with the name business in it. Like bachelor of business administration bba or bachelor of science in business BA or like a masters of business administration mba. If someone tells me they’re a business major I’m gonna assume they specifically have a degree in business. Anything else would just be an accounting major” or finance major.” Some kid whose parents paid for a four year drinking binge I know several former business majors. From what I can tell they specialize in supervising people in doing things they know nothing about. Finance Marketing Accounting Economics etc. Based on my college experience it was any guy who stood by the door at the party saying who do you know here?” Dont mean to highjack your post but what even are majors and minors in college? It can mean finance accounting commerce. But in conversation people use it pejoratively like if I fail engineering I can always go to business school” they’re not usually talking about the harder stuff like becoming CPA they mean the easier stuff like public sector management stuff like Basically anything that has to do with business except economics A business major is someone who majors in business. Not accounting not finance *business*. Usually this is in the form of an MBA Masters of Business Administration. Its a total BS degree but it is also the prerequisite for a lot of management jobs especially in big companies. Basically it was created to make business types feel like they have a special degree like a lawyer or doctor. Business major” means not smart enough to do the math in a real major but daddy’s checks kept clearing so the college found something to do with you” Post 84 What do you think of the Muppet character Sam Eagle? Author Fun_Butterfly_420 LOVE. His dry You are all weirdos one liner in The Great Muppet Caper was a favorite childhood movie quote. Fast forward to my forties and his I hate Europe line in Muppets Most Wanted makes me giggle every time I think of it. So thanks! Hes funny reminds me of my scoutmaster when I was a kid. This exchange in the *Muppet Christmas Carol* never fails to crack me up **Sam** You will love business! It is the AMERICAN WAY! **Gonzo** takes him by the arm and whispers something in his ear **Sam** Oh. It is the BRITISH WAY!! He’s great! Not at all offensive. I have no idea if the Swedish Chef is offensive at all but he cracks me up too He’s great! Like him on Muppets 3D RIP in Disney. Hes the Muppet version of The Colbert Report. I love him He got far too little screen time. He was good. You could either love him as a fellow patriotic conservative or more likely as a mocking satire of a patriotic real American” from an older generation. Sam pokes fun at what Patriotism even means and whether it should be taken too seriously. He was great in The Muppet Christmas Carol even though he played a Brit. That’s my father i like Sam. Once of my faves. Somebody’s dad growing up was always exactly that guy. Hes amazing. The straight man role in any wacky franchise is always the funniest. I always thought it was Sam *the* Eagle? One of my favorite Muppets to quote. Why am I here? Is nothing sacred? I love Sam Eagle I especially love his role in where he forgets which country the story is set in Peak character design As a muppet he’s a caricature of a certain type of American and he represents it pretty well. Few people would like and respect a human as pompous and obnoxious as Sam but as a muppet hes fun to laugh at. Ever scene he had was gold. Hilarious one of my favorite muppets ever. Underneath his clothing hes completely naked! I love the Muppets one of my favorite entertainment properties ever. I was a kid in the 80s when it was a sensation. I always thought it he was a bit of a strange addition sort of onenote character. Now I wonder what Hensons motivation for him was. Love him love his dry deadpan delivery He’s very authoritative and I find that reassuring.” —Eleanor Shellstrop Funny and annoying. 😂 Hes got such an absolute stick up his butt. He would probably be boring on his own but he makes a good foil to all the other varieties of lunatics surrounding him. It never occurred to me to think of him as offensive or even political until just now. Hes just a comedy character who happens to exist at the intersection of Americans laughing at themselves and wow this guys got a massive stick up his butt. I love his appearance in Muppet Christmas Carol. Its the American Way! \*Pstpspspsp\* Its the BRITISH Way! He’s great all muppets are great sad the reboot of the muppet show didn’t last. After Statler and Waldorf Grover and Doctor Bunsen Honeydew he’s one of my favorite Muppets. Anyone who says otherwise is a weirdo. He were the mate in Muppet treasure Island werent he? Guess hes ok. Never really got into the Muppets. Ahead of his time. One of the best Muppets! My friend is afraid of him. Not among my favorites but nothing *wrong* with the character or anything... I think the Philadelphia eagles should retire swoop and bring in Sam as our official mascot I am convinced he was based off of President William McKinley. He ran an America First campaign and had crazy eyebrows Asxa kid he was my favorite. Always thought of him All American. Guess that is why Im conservative now. He’s supposed to be an eagle? I thought he was just a random blue thing like Gonzo His Jungle Boogie rendition is classic. Love that guy. He always reminded me of my dad The worst Muppet I can think of right now. He just looks dumb. Nothing at all A grandfather that survived the Vietnam War. I could also see Sam the Eagle saying slurs and getting away with it. Yes he’s my least favorite Muppet but if I see some Muppets memorabilia I do try to purchase it because we are losing our ancient texts. I don’t remember that one. Then again I don’t remember many of the muppets to begin with. I know Kermit Miss Piggy Animal Beaker Gonzo The Swedish Chef the two old guys and that’s about it. I disliked him because I thought he was a pompous dullard but some folks loved him for the same reason Not much to be honest. B or C tier muppet. Post 85 Why Do People Slap Taxis? Like a slap on a football players butt. Its weird. Weirder with a car. To tell the diver it’s all clear to pull away. Are you talking about tapping the top or back of the car after they get out? They’re telling the driver that they’re clear of the car and the driver can leave. Tells the driver they’re clear to leave. ...what are you in particular fuckin talking about? It signals you and your contents are clear so the taxi can leave. Probably not that common as seen in movies but I know Ive done it and not just to taxis. Would probably piss an uber driver off lol. I think I know what you’re talking about it’s just to tell the driver you’ve got all your stuff door and trunk are shut business is concluded. Taxi drivers drive around all day it’s a nice piece of mind to have that minor piece of communication and not be second guessing wait were they ready for me to drive off?” They know what they did. It means the person inside is ready to go. Or that theyre safely out. Its safe to drive off. Two things you might be describing 1. Disembarking passengers letting the driver know they and their bags are safely outside the vehicle and they can pull away. 2. Cyclists used to commonly slap box trucks when passing or riding beside them and as a cyclist I can totally see someone deciding to do this with taxis too to make them look in their mirror and be aware of their presence for safety reasons. Do people still use taxis? Why are you fetishizing cars Is slap taxis a new euphemism for something? There are scenes in movies where someone slaps the back of an ambulance to indicate to the driver that the door is closed. They just like the feel of a firm fender panel as it rolls away. Signal to driver they and their stuff are out and clear so he can drive off The real question here is Why do foreigners treat American movies made specifically for entertainment purposes like theyre documentaries? The answer is you do this to let the driver know they can drive away. When you get your bags out can tap the taxi to signal the driver that you are out and have your things. Because ah’m walkin’ heeyah! To leave a fingerprint so that if something happens to them theres evidence they were in the cab Taxis drivers are secretly into car bdsm. This way when you smack the car they get embarrassed that you know the secret and leave. I assume you are referring to films where they hit the back of the Ambulances. They do that to alert the EMT/Driver that the back doors are closed and they are clear to drive off as they cant really see into the back of the ambulance. as for cabs i have never seen that once. Theres no reason to do it. People slap taxis? I’ve never seen that. It’s a sign that the taxi is clear to go. Its Im out of the car and about to step out of the way youre clear to go. And its not a slap. Just an audible tap. Its courteous. It signals to the driver that they are free to drive away. You and your stuff are out. Im so confused by this thread. Are you talking about the Hey Im walking here! slap on the hood after almost getting hit by a taxi? Or the Im all set you can leave now knock on the roof or trunk after leaving a taxi? They are different and distinct. Its a gesture used to communicate that youre good to go. Im not sure what the context is for the movie American film shorthand. Conveying without words the conversation is done now is th the scene where the taxi pulls away. Also Ive never seen this in real life. And Im assuming almost no one does it. It might have made sense back when cars had giant blind spots but like the phrase hang up the phone the trope has outlasted what actually happens Signal to the driver I’m clear. You can drive off.” I have NEVER done that. this isnt a thing Someones been watching too many movies but Im sure it comes from the Hollywood language of making the horse move translated to the automobile horse giddy up Post 86 Why is the police presence in the US much greater than Europe? I have traveled to 9 European countries and 32 US states. I have drove in all countries and states. One big difference I noticed is police presence. Going down the interstate in the US you see many people pulled over by the police. In big cities there also seem to be way more police in the US. Also driving through small towns there are way more police in the US. Pretty much anywhere you go from big cities to small towns to the highways in between them there seem to be way more police in the US than in Europe? Why is this? Your question is based on anecdotal observation at best. I probably saw 10x more police in the 7 years I lived in Europe than the 37 Ive lived in the US. In fact when there was a soccer game in my town in Germany I would see more cops on that one day than in several years combined in my town in the US. I think European countries actually have more police officers per capita. Germany has the Bereitschaftspolizei which allows them to bring a large number of officers to bear on situations and the US has no equivalent of this. The US has more police agencies 18000+ but they are often poorly staffed with many officers working alone which is not done in Europe Ive lived in Europe and been to half of the continent and I noticed the opposite and a quick google search says that the EU has 333 officers per 100k residents to our 198 I also noticed that while our cops are far more likely to be armed when European cops DO have guns they seem to commonly have sub machine guns or rifles compared to our officers pistols Europe seems to be far more heavily policed with military often participating in the action. Thats interesting because I noticed the exact opposite in Europe many more police frequently carrying more firepower and much more aggressive. Always either guarding a crime scene or chasing a thief Europe generally has a higher number of police officers per capita than the United States. USA isnt even in the top 30 for most heavily policed country Im not really sure the math checks out on this. From some very quick Googling it looks like New York City Paris and London all happen to have have roughly the same number of police officers weirdly all between 3200034000. And Paris is notably smaller than the other two while NYC and London are of similar population. And going down a tier in size comparing San Diego vs. Munich about of equivalent population Munich actually seems to have like 3 times as many officers as San Diego. I felt the opposite. Walking through Madrid it was like there was a pair of cops hanging out on every block. According to Wiki the U.S. has the same rate of officers per capita as France and less than Italy and Portugal. Maybe Google it first next time to check your assumptions. Here we usually have law enforcement for specific duties. There might be a highway patrol the city or town has their own the county has their own a school district might have a small force the Postal Service has their own and so on. For traffic enforcement theres a lot of controversy over automated traffic infractions so its still very common to do this manually by patrol. And theres probably no shortage of police unions who dont want that work to be outsourced/automated. Youd also be surprised at how many illegal guns drug smugglers and human traffickers are caught due to traffic stops. Highway police may also conduct stops on freight trucks like for example those transporting fresh food to make sure the cooling is working. But Ive definitely noticed law enforcement in my visits to European cities its pretty common in like anywhere there is a tourist destination. Also very common in Mexico City. besides what others have said automated traffic control cameras are more common in Europe. Red light and speed cameras are not permissible here in New Jersey at all for example. Hell NJ drafted legislation to not give driver data to other states for automated traffic control schemes. Unless you’re literally specifying exactly where you’re comparing it’s just what you’re noticing. If it’s New York City I could probably believe you did see more police there but that’s the exception not the norm. It’s interesting that you’ve made this comparison because I felt the exact opposite. I actually thought the police were more militaristic than what I would see normally here. I spent a summer in France and have visited Germany a few times. Most of the police looked like something that I would find on a military base here in the US. In fact while visiting Jamaica although not European they had some kind of a tank with a bunch of soldiers with what looked like automatic weapons at a bank. There was barbed wire around the property and a large fence. It looked more like a prison than a bank. A few things It depends on where you are Im guessing by Europe you mean the major tourist hotspots of western Europe. The US has number of officers per capita as France and Italy but significantly more than the UK and Germany. And fewer officers per capita than Spain and Greece. Of course those resources are allocated differently and some countries have supplemental forces that arent always counted like transit officers as well as officers that arent actually out on patrol. But theres also probably some sampling bias at play here. Comparing driving and living your day to day life in one place to being a tourist in the other is not really an accurate sample. Anecdotally I have had the opposite experience. Theres also some scenarios where it makes sense to stand out and some where it makes sense to blend in and obviously different countries/cities/departments make different decisions there. In most urban locations there are more plainclothes police you just dont know it. When I last had occasion to call the police for something urgent in a \[very safe\] European city there were a pair of officers there within 30 seconds both dressed like trendy 20somethings. You cant really see what you cant see whether theyre plainclothes police or monitored security cameras or speed cameras. Previous crime rate deterrence meeting quotas and size. Previous High Crime Rate = in the 80’s I believe there was a high crime rate Deterrence = People are less likely to commit crimes knowing police are nearby Meeting Quotas = Depending on when and where you travel police are more likely to pull people for speeding so they can meet quotas because everyone speeds. Size = European countries vs. American states It’s literally not. https//landgeist.com/2022/12/14/policeofficersineurope/ https//ucr.fbi.gov/crimeintheu.s/2019/crimeintheu.s.2019/tables/table71 multiply by 100 If anything European law enforcement places greater emphasis on deterrence through police presence why the US places emphasis on incarceration. Ive traveled a lot in Europe and also the US and my anecdotal experience is quite different than yours. In big cities in the US I dont see cops very often. Ive seen large obvious police presence in places like Paris and Rome although there were good reasons at the times I was there so not sure what the average is over time. I havent driven much on European highways so cant comment about that. I have driven extensively in the US and sometimes see a cop car but not often. Couple of things contribute to this. Policing is very decentralized. Every town has its own separately funded police force. The county that town is in will have its own separately funded police force. Then that state that the county is in will have its own separately funded police force. Often these forces are not well funded and must rely on writing tickets to self fund. That incentives pulling people over. Large metro areas may be home to multiple municipalities and with each having its own police prowling for tickets along the same stretch of highway it will give the impression that there is a massive amount of cops. But in reality they are just all on that same stretch of road because that’s where the speeders are. Very much a crocodile waiting on antelope to cross the river vibe. There is around 725000 nonfederal law enforcement officers in America. Sounds like a lot but that is to police 340000000 Americans roughly one cop per 469 Americans. Add in Federal law enforcement and it turns into 1 cop per 378 Americans. For comparison in the UK it’s one cop per 401 Brits. So close to the presence in America. In Germany it’s 1 cop per 287 Germans. It is not. Most European nations have significantly more police per capita than the US. In particular France Germany and the UK have far more per capita. And yet we cant ever get one when we call... Americans dont like pickpocketing and other petty crimes we think having a visible vehicle will prevent it. Im not kidding I work with my city council and police to help the neighborhood my store is in and one of the most effective ways to lower quality of life crimes is putting a police car on the corner of the intersection. Not even manned the perception prevents misbehaving. When i was in Germany I saw far more police just out and about. I think this might just be that you had a particular experince I dont think its indicative of the nation. I will say that you see more of them on the highways than you’d ever see in pedestrian areas. Law enforcement seems to focus on policing traffic more than anything. This is the easiest way to catch people running from the law. We have a national crime database all of these local police departments share with each other nationwide. Patrol cops are hoping to catch wanted people fugitives drug dealers human traffickers by pulling them over for speeding and checking out their identity. I’ve not noticed this difference. My impression from my time in Europe was that they had much more law enforcement presence in areas at least tourist areas and transportation infrastructure. Of course I have not been everywhere and there could be some selection bias. I also noticed how much more armed they were than typical police in the US. I would see law enforcement in body armor and carrying sub machine guns or assault rifles near prominent locations. Usually the Gendarmerie in France or the Carabinieri in Italy. Thats pretty different than in the US just seeing a regular cop with their protective vest and a handgun. Probably just the nature of your experiences. Most likely you were in a lot of high traffic areas where police are more common and needed or driving for long periods of time giving you a better chance of seeing police pull someone over. In the US police are out catching speeders. In Europe the police are standing around with rifles watching *you*. One of the differences between Europe and the US... in the former blitz cameras do most of the traffic enforcement. In the US this has run into legal problems so police spend part of their time sitting in their cruisers waiting to spot a traffic violation. Hence US police will be much more visible while driving around. The cynical answer to this is that our prison system is partially run by private companies so police presence is heavier in places where people either pay high taxes for it or where it’s easier to convert arrests into imprisonments once the person goes through the court system. Definitely seems anecdotal As a US citizen I see a cop in my town maybe once a month if that. You do see them pulling people over more often than that to be fair but I dont think super often. I commute two hours round trip 5 days a week maybe see a pull over once a week or less. When were you driving in the US? I drive on a few interstates all the time and while I do sometimes see the occasional state cop car and they certainly respond to accidents I really only see them with tons of cars pulled over on heavy traffic partyassociated weekends. Like driving on 95 at Easter 100 miles not even a speed trap. Same stretch Memorial Day weekend despite the name a party weekend quite a few cars pulled over and getting ticketed. As for small towns I suspect again that you were visiting at times/in areas where they are cracking down on drunk drivers and speeders. My small town here in a tourist area doesnt even have their own cops youll see the one state cop car driving around a bit but they really never pull anyone over. So anyway it was absolutely your observational bias. I saw more cops in a week in Europe than 6 months in Boston. We have lots of different police forces. City cops county sheriffs who sometimes replace the city police in nonincorporated areas which doesnt always mean rural highway patrols some states like Texas have special state police like Rangers even game wardens are law enforcement. Different uniforms duties responsibilities. Plus you probably wont ever see SWAT or weird ones like San Francisco Sheriffs unless you go to court. Europe has a higher population density so you might see cops with heavier firepower especially Italy and France. Police here just have pistols and either shotguns or increasingly semiauto AR15 i.e. not a machine gun that get left in the squad car. Europe seems more heavily armed sometimes except UK minus NI Republic of Ireland and Norway. And even so Oslo has an active military base in town was fun to watch those guys go about their day. Many countries in Europe rely heavily on automated traffic enforcement speed cameras and red light cameras are far more common. Despite the Autobahn being known as having no speed limit this isnt actually true near cities about half of the network and there are crazy speed cameras in the restricted areas. On highways they are often average speed cameras that time how long it takes you to complete a segment of the highway so you cant just slow down where theyre located. And Germany also has mobile speed cameras that move from place to place so you cant expect them. That said statistically its not true Europe has fewer police. Theres just less traffic enforcement. And it generally has more intensive education and training to become a cop. My town in the US literally only has one police officer lol Honestly this depends on where youre at here. Ive seen triple as many officers on the streets in Paris than I ever have here in the US. But if you go to New York City or Chicago youll see lots of police presence. If you live in an average American city....nah. Maybe some police cruisers dotting here and there but nothing like Ive experienced in Europe. We hate taxes so to compensate the cops have to help balance the budget a bit writing tickets. I’ve been to multiple cities each in the UK France Ireland Italy Germany and Spain and this has not been my experience. I could see it from the angle of driving maybe? I don’t recall seeing many people pulled over when I drove in Ireland Italy and Spain. I only took the train in the other countries. However in the US I don’t see a lot of officers actually outside of their cars. All the above countries had cops on foot patrol or horseback in a lot more places. I particularly remember this in Italy because Italian police outfits really stand out. Italian cops were everywhere. I also remember this in France because they were carrying what looked like submachine guns in the cities and that was jarring. The one exception was Iceland. I don’t remember seeing any police there but I also didn’t spend much time in Reykjavik where I assume most of them are. Im a former cop. Cops hang around certain areas more often. And hang around areas at certain times of day. Cops are always really rare. All the wild crazies came here. US Money. More money more police to hire. Plus we got a lot of people to police Post 87 Is hitchhiking still a thing and is it safe? Author AlphaKapalMuks Its far less common these days and it was never safe. Ehhhhh. It exists but I wouldn’t call it common. I would never call it safe. No and hell no It exists and its never been safe. Every year where I live skiers and snowboarder will try to hitch hike to as far up the mountain they can get after theyve gone down. My gf and I make a game of how many well count by the time we get to where were going. Outside of that Ive never seen someone do it. [deleted] As a truck driver while not that common YES it is still a thing. When I was on the road id see it from time to time. Maybe 34 people a month? I live in a town that sees a lot of Pacific Crest Trail hikers and Ive given plenty of them plenty of rides. The people who have four thousand dollars worth of gear strapped to their back are probably not out to rob me of my two thousand dollar car. Not really a thing. Maybe on campus in a college where students pick up other students Rarely a thing anymore. Definitely not safe. I tried to hitchhike back when I was backpacking. Its fairly common along longer trails in this case it was the Appalachian Trail. Unfortunately I was in the asscrack of nowhere and only 3 vehicles went by. I ended up finding some people getting dropped off and the person doing the drop off gave me a ride back to town. Its not exactly safe but context is pretty important. If I see a random person hitchhiking around my city thats sketch as hell. If I see someone along a long backpacking route with a large backpack and trekking poles the only reason Id worry more about how bad theyd make my car smell than anything. I’m from the Pacific Northwest and I’d say it isn’t common but you see it occasionally. I’ve never picked up a hitchhiker because of safety concerns. Not really a thing unless you want to risk being murdered No and no. Not really and no I can’t remember the last time I saw a hitchhiker I don’t think it’s a thing like it was in the 70’s and before. No it’s not safe now. it wasn’t safe then. It’s never been safe. I see them quite frequently. I live near an entrance to the appalachian trail. So its mostly just hikers looking for a ride into town. Back in 2014 I was 17 and living in Gilbert Arizona. I had just moved there the previous year and had befriended a bunch of exchange students. One night we were invited to a party that was a 3 mile walk down the road. It was about 10pm and dark and there were barely any cars on the road. My friends suggested we hitchhike. They said we could flag down a pickup and hop in the back. I didnt think it was a good idea but they assured me theyd done this a bunch in their countries Argentina and Slovakia. A pickup truck drives by so we stick our thumb out and he pulls over for us. Being the American in the group I walk up to the passenger side window which is too tinted to see into and wait. I hear a locking/unlocking sound and for a brief moment I thought he was unlocking the door so I could open it but then I thought better and decided to wait. The window rolls down and I find myself looking down the barrel of a pistol maybe about 2 feet from my face. The man starts SCREAMING at me wants to know what the fuck my problem is blah blah blah. I step to the side out of the way of the gun and say I was just going to ask for a ride and walk back to my friends. Whatd he say? they asked. Just fucking go I answered. The guy was young maybe 25. I have no idea why he did that besides just wanting an excuse to stick his gun in someones face. If he was legitimately scared why the fuck did he pull over? There is no logical reason to stop besides just being a mean person. He could have shot me in the face and driven off and he might have completely gotten away with it too. So thats my hitch hiking story. The scariest moment of my life. Never tried that again. It’s not like it was in the 60s/movies. Very uncommon. Can’t tell you when I’ve seen a hitchhiker and it has a bad reputation as being sketchy after all the crimes that have transpired Its illegal in my state. It is in certain situations. The thru hiking community still hitchhikes. I’ve hitched in the last year. It’s kinda an exercise in trust when your doing it. You don’t know who’s gonna pick you up and they don’t know who they’re picking up. You’ll meet very interesting characters doing it. It’s best to do in groups. The last time i hitchiked was 07? as a teenager on Long Island The last time i picked up a hitchiker was in 2019 on a highway in southern alabama. Dropped them off at the bus station in chalmette. They were clearly not right but they were walking along the highway and it was about to thunderstorm. I saved them probably half a day of walking and from getting downpoured on. I didnt feel at risk bc it was me and a friend in the car. I think ive seen single digit hitchhikers since then. It was never safe. Ain’t you ever watch any true crime? Ive done it many times around the south and west of the Mississippi River. Quite a few hitchhikers in the southwest especially around reservations. Ive picked up many like around 1620. This makes it not very common and its only getting less common every decade. Its not safe but its sometimes just what you gotta do. Its also pretty fun people that have picked me up are usually very kind and good hearted individuals. Im a mostly white man not particularly strong looking. It is WAY riskier for women alone but with a trustworthy road dog human travelling companion it can be safer. Keep a knife and your wits about you along with a dash of good judgement and you can have a positive life changing experience. Ive seen it in a few place mostly the rest. Last July 4th weekend was the last time I saw it. I saw it in a town couple years ago after a May snowstorm and I picked the person up to help her locate her car. Wasnt my first time and not my last time Ill do so. I cant really say how safe it is. Youre definitely taking a risk but most people arent hurting strangers. Thats not where the majority of murder and violent criminal statistics come from. Overall I just wouldnt recommend it outside of an emergency. It wasn’t safe back when it was common. Why would it be safe now? Google serial killers who picked up/targeted hitchhikers. Hitchhiking is considered a high risk” behavior meaning that it puts the person engaging in it in a high risk situation for being victimized. Kind of. Safe? Nope. Its a 50/50 gamble with your life picking up a hitchhiker and same thing vice versa. If we were all psychic and knew each others intentions then it would be a lot safer because wed KNOW what that complete stranger is trying to do just get somewhere. But were not and thus we cant know for sure who were picking up/getting a ride with. So Ill never be caught alive hitchhiking or giving a ride to a hitchhiker. Too much risk involved. Even if Im armed with a knife/gun. Im just never going down that road. Reddit is apparently very sheltered. It depends on where you are in the US but in areas with large amounts of outdoor recreation its fairly common. Think ski towns or areas around national or state parks. Its also statistically more safe than walking around basically any major city in the US. not really and it has never been safe Ive picked up a few hitchhikers here in alaska probably more common here than other parts of the US I don’t think it’s as big of a thing as it was in the 70s/80s but I sure as hell wouldn’t pick anyone up. Last time I did it about 3 years ago took me a long time to get rides. Up to 2 hours. Before that I did it 10 years ago and the max i waited was 15 minutes. Things change ... Both times I traveled for 2 weeks on the road and always felt safe. Both times were also spend on hwy 101/1. Its a rare occasion for me to see someone hitchhiking. No it is not safe and nobody should do it. It would probably be safe if anyone would pick anyone up. The problem is mass media sells tickets and ad time by sensationalizing everything and stories of serial killers and murders with hitchhiking grab peoples attention. People get the impression that it happens WAY more than it ever did. So...nobody hitch hikes and nobody picks up hitch hikers because people have been conditioned to irrationally believe the odds are great that people that hitch hike or people that pick up hitch hikers are serial killers. No and definitely no. Throughout the 60s into the 90s hitchhiking was a thing among some teens and young adults and got a lot of people killed or greatly harmed. Pretty much when you get in the car with a stranger youve never met before a day in your life you dont know what their intentions are it could be someone wanting or needing help from a stranger or it could be the Ted Bundy. A lot of times hitchikers were run aways and without phones it was hard to track them. Thats why a few serial killers specifically targeted hitchikers. Thanks to cell phones and riding sharing apps such as uber and lyft hitchhiking is hardly ever heard of anymore but is still very dangerous. No. Not safe No. And not at all safe. It is rare. Ive picked up a hitchhiker though. Said hed been from coast to coast. He had a dog too forget its name something to do with some kind of alcohol. Jack Daniels or something like that. Still a thing and it was and never will be safe. I saw a hitchhiker near South Lake Tahoe last year. I was extremely surprised haven’t seen one since I was a kid in the very early 2000’s. It was never safe. Now it is much less safe. I did a ton of hitchhiking around Europe. But that was the 80s Ive seen some crust punks trying to hitchhike on I5 off and on over the years. I dont know anyone whos ever actually hitched a ride or picked anyone up. When I was growing up pretty much everyones parents told their kids that it was dangerous. It happens sometimes but its not common. I wouldnt call it safe. Do I think youd run across a killer? No. Contrary to popular media portrayals we are not overrun with violent psychopaths. Do I think the only people who would be likely to pick up a hitchhiker are likely to be odd individuals with questionable judgment? Yes. Not really I wouldn’t pick up a random person. That said I kinda hitched a ride in college. I lived 4 miles uphill with a 600ft elevation change from campus. Inland empire Southern California technically not the desert but it was late spring or summer and 95+ degrees. By that point in the year I was fit enough to do the ride on my fixie with 15 minute water break on a coolish &lt90 degree day but I was dying so I was walking my bike. Someone felt pity on me 1/4 of the way and offered me a ride to where I hopped off the main road and took a fire road. Thinking back I could’ve been disappeared but I was dying and just took the offer with little hesitation. I still see hitchhikers. I used to see people pulling over for them. I can’t remember the last time I’ve seen anyone pull over to give anyone a ride. Yes and then no. I’ve hitched and putting yourself into a strangers vehicle with little to no control over the outcome when literally no one knows where you are a thousand miles from home is an inherently risky or dangerous situation to be in. I wouldn’t advise it to most people but it does work. I’d never be 100% to call it safe” but when I was a teenager I ran out of gas in the middle of nowhere in PA in the freezing and snow. I ended up flagging down to two strangers who were nice enough to drive me to Walmart to buy a gas can and then to sheetz for gas. Only time I ever see it is with backpackers the hiking kind. Ive done it once to save a few miles of walking/jogging back to my car and Ive picked up a few groups over the years. Bucking the common answer to say sort of”. In the metro areas and major highways definitely not. I don’t even remember the last time I saw a hitchhiker. But I see a few every year in the mountain towns in Colorado. It’s not common but nor is it unusual to see someone hitching up from Ned to Eldora carrying all of their ski gear. Or thumbing a ride between Frisco and Breckenridge or around Buena Vista just as a few examples. It is rare but exists. It has never been safe. No and no. Not for decades tbh. I hitchhiked when I got out of jail. A very nice man took me to get food and dropped me off at home. Was very happy for the meal and to not have to walk 15 miles in the Texas summer heat. You wanna something really scary? Nope and nope. And its assumed the payment is sexual regardless of gender. It is still done but not so much anymore. No. Absolutely no it is not safe. Only for young men who hail semi trucks. I would *never recommend* hitchhiking to any woman anyone easily overpowered etc. except if you mean my volleyball coach saw me walking home and offered a lift”. Even then be cautious Its perfectly fine but if you are coming to America and need a ride Ill be perfectly happy to come pick you up. * insert evil villain laugh here* Hell no its not safe. It was never ‘safe’ Just not as easily reported Funny you should ask. It was very common when I was growing up in the 70s and 80s especially at the onramps to highways. Today I saw a woman walking down a road with their thumb out! I probably havent seen that for twenty years. Nobody was stopping to give her a ride. The last time I picked up hitchhikers was when I was probably 19 years old. I was leaving the Colville Indian Reservation. A couple of guys my age were hitchhiking with big backpacks on. I told them to hop in the back of my pickup and tap on the back window when they wanted me to stop. Riding in the back of pickups was legal and common back then. Now I wouldnt pick up hitchhikers because you would have to let them inside the vehicle with you and Im not about to do that. Ive driven almost all of North America many times and Id say it is still relatively common. You definitely dont see it as much as you used to though. I grew up in the southern Rockies and hitchhiking was a relatively common practice that most of us did trying to get from small town to small town. Nobody ever had illintentions and the statistics even to this day back that up. Its actually much more dangerous to be a hitchhiker than to pick up a hitchhiker. That said people are very wary these days so I suspect it probably takes a bit longer to find a ride than it used to. Still you see hitchhikers often enough that it must still work to some extent. I haven’t seen anyone doing it since the 90s. My mom picked up this nice young man because he lived nearby and she felt bad that he was walking so far into town. A few days later we found out he was actually absolutely insane. This guy just pulled his pants down and shat in our other neighbors yard regularly yelled at no one from his porch then broke into another neighbors house while running from the cops because someone reorted him when he started ramdomly firing a gun from his front porch a different day. We lived in a nice little neighborhood near a lake and most neighbors were grandparents who had summer homes there so I sort of get why my mom was oblivious to the risk but jeez she got lucky he didnt lose it in the car. So no picking up hitchikers and hitchhiking are not safe and if someone is hitchhiking where I live theyre definitely not someone you want in your car. I hadnt thought about it but I dont remember the last time I saw someone hitchhiking No not safe when I was a kid it was my main source of transportation. I hitchhiked across the country 3 or 4 times and any time I had to go shorter distances it was always by hitching. But this was in the 70s. Wouldnt recommend doing it today and you never see hitchhikers anymore. But back in the 70s when I was a kid it was very very common. I never had a single problem hitching. No and its not safe. Last one I saw was 9 years ago. Perhaps homeless had his finger out. As I got ready to drive by he put his finger down. I saw in my rear view mirror him put it back up after. As a young female at the time I obviously wasn’t going to take him but I do feel like he rejected me and that stung lol. I hope he got to wherever he was going. There are probably several serial killer truck drivers based on the bodies found along highways. Nope to both.. it’s actually illegal in many states It’s not very common at all but I’ve given several hitchhikers rides. None of them was a particularly great experience. One guy was drunk one guy was hungover and trying to hitchhike home on a Sunday morning I have not idea where he slept that night outside the bar maybe? and another guy had some mental issues. I actually accidentally gave him a ride again years later I didn’t recognize him until I had already stopped. I told that story to a friend of mine and he said he had given the same guy a ride as well. I’ve seen a few other hitchhikers that I didn’t stop for because I was driving too fast to slow down in time and one time in the middle of Kansas or Oklahoma or something I didn’t have any room in my car because I was moving and it was full of my stuff. The reason I gave hitchhikers rides several times was I always figured no one in their right mind would pick up a hitchhiker so if I don’t give them a ride who knows how long they’ll have to wait” I’ve done it backpacking before mostly around the PCT or AT It’s very rare and it was never safe. Serial killers thrived off of hitchhikers in the 70’s and 80’s. Seriously! Between Green River Gary and Ted Bundy it felt like serial killers were normal around here growing up. I have seen a couple of hitchhikers in recent years. I have not picked them up. Not common. But it still exists in certain subcultures like backpacking and skiing. Youll usually see at least one person hitchhiking up Little Cottonwood on Saturday. There are still rideshares for strangers trying to get to ski areas and throughhikers can help each other shuttle to trailheads. Ive picked up a cyclist in Yosemite and my wife has picked up hikers in Bend Oregon. Ill pick you up. Most people even make it to where they wanted to go No and no. I don’t recommend ever getting in a stranger’s car but if you do text someone the licenses plate number and what direction you’re going and on what road. There are organized slug lines for commuting into DC but that is not side of the road with your thumb up hitchhiking. Not since like the 70s. Nope. I saw one a few weeks ago. If you ever have to hitchhike you should say I know youre not a serial killer because the changes of two serial killers meeting are astronomically small I mean it was safer in the 60s and 70s but even then people disappeared here and there nowadays you couldnt pay me to do it I see them at least a few times a week. I haven’t picked anyone up in about ten years but used to pick up people about once every two months. Friend of mine hitchhiked from San Diego to Seattle last year. Took him four days and five rides. Three of the rides were long haul truck drivers. One was a group of college kids returning from some event. One was some old hippie dude who told him a bunch of stories about the Grateful Dead”. He said the best place to get picked up was at rest areas so he tried to get dropped off at rest areas if his current ride wasn’t going much further. It was cool hearing his stories but I’m not at a place in my life to attempt that myself. Only ever saw one guy hitch hike and it was in the middle of the desert in I’m gonna fucking die” level temperatures so I gave him a ride. Normally I wouldn’t though. When i lived in summit co in the 1990s i hitchhiked into town a lot. I never felt unsafe and never had to wait more than 10 minutes or so for a ride. I just kinda watched for in county plates. It is weird to me that hitching is not more common. Now the only people i see hitching are the great unwashed. I have seen it once or twice I think it’s pretty rare now Its a thing a lot more than people here think. Perhaps they dont leave their cities. Ive personally hitchhiked a lot in Alaska. You see it out in the Southwest and West Coast somewhat frequently. You will also see it a lot more near big trail systems. Ive seen it a handful of times but its never been safe I wouldn’t do it. I don’t really see people by the side of the road with their thumbs out looking for a ride in my area. These days there is probably some app people are using to find free rides. Absolutely not a thing and not safe. I saw a hitchhiker once or twice in the country and that is all. People have cell phones today and it is easy to find mechanic help or get a paid ride. There is no need to hitchhike. I see hitchhikers all the time but they’re usually dealing with substance abuse issues. It’s considered unsafe to pick one up or go hitchhiking. It’s the storyline for nearly every 70s murder doc. Not really and not really. Very uncommon. Its probably safer than most people think it is. There are signs posted along highways near prisons saying something like Do not pick up hitchhikers. They may be escaped criminals.” Fuck no. It’s still fairly common in Alaska in rural areas which is most of the state basically outside the larger populated areas of Anchorage Fairbanks Wasilla/Palmer. It’s really just lack of other options. Let’s say your car breaks down in Palmer but you live 40 miles up the Glenn Hwy your chances of hitching a ride home are much higher than getting an Uber to take you also much cheaper. There are buses in some areas but they’re like once a day and don’t necessarily run in winter. In fact I definitely see hitchhikers more frequently in winter. I get the impression that its common in hawaii. Riding on the back of the pickup truck. Im a thruhiker and that often involves hitchhiking. Ive got maybe thirty or forty hitches under my belt by now. Happy to answer questions but I dont really know what to say about it. Usually get picked up by lonely people that want to talk. I did in the growing up in the 90s because I lived in the cuts and had to. Even in 2000 when I left for college people I told were shocked. Even in hippy ass central coast California I dont see any Hitchhiker Hey thanks for stopping but aren’t you afraid I’m a serial killer? Me *chuckles* No the chances of two serial killers in the same car are astronomical 😁 Pretty rare the only kind of hitch hiker Ive ever picked up was walking up the road with a gas can. Passed his stalled car then nearly hit him 2am on a back road felt bad so I took him to the nearest station Ive been driving for almost 22 years and Ive never seen a hitchhiker in North Carolina. I also drive between 2025k miles a year for work. I live on the edge of my city where the suburbs fade into a rural area and there arent sidewalks around. Ive seen several locals walking on the side of the road in their uniform and thought about offering them a ride but figured itd be weird. Illegal in many states. Dangerous. Uncommon. You need to save up money for a bus. Train hopping is a whole world among the homeless but much harder and super dangerous. Most people aren’t aware of this world. But it’s a thing and it’s getting harder and harder to pull off with more security. Please don’t do it. It is still a thing. Ive known lots of serious hitchhikers over the years. They tell me they can get from coast to coast in three to four days. But its far more marginal than it was when the Boomers were young and is against the law in many jurisdictions. I wouldnt call it safe. Its not for the faint of heart and you kind of have to know what youre doing. Its illegal in most places because its incredibly unsafe Ive thruhiked all three big trails in America Appalachian Pacific Crest and Continental Divide trails and have hitchhiked hundreds of times. I am here alive to tell the tale for what its worth. Ive done short hitches from the trail to town and Ive hitched across whole states to get to an airport or something. You meet some pretty crazy people sure but its not as bad as some people in this thread make it sound. The world isnt that bad until it is I guess. Your mileage may well vary! I hitch hiked once in my life me and my friend misjudged how far a campsite was from the bus line so we walked to it and the next day we started to walk back but had so many blisters and very heavy equipment. Some dude picked us up and everything went fine. Thank you dude if you are reading this. But in general it isnt something thats seen much anymore Id have to think its fairly risky if it hadnt been two young males together I dont think we would have tried it. I haven’t seen one in years but as many times as I’ve been told to never pick up a hitchhiker it wouldn’t matter if I did. Yes though not as common as it used to be and generally. Theres certainly a small risk getting into a random car with a stranger but contrary to pop culture most people who would be willing to give a rando a ride are just nice people trying to help and most hitchhikers really do just want a ride. Yes no. Ive picked up hitchhikers twice. Fun fact they were the same people both times! I was traveling from West Palm to Ft. Myers and saw a young couple just west of Belle Glade. Picked them up and dropped them off. I told them I was leaving on Monday to head back before cell phones and guess who was in LaBelle on my way back? I was never worried because I had the greatest dog ever with me! Flash. The beagle that could have been a beanie baby for the cuteness and lovability...and physicality. Ive only hitchhiked once I took the wrong bus while I was skiing and ended up a few miles out of the way with no bus back so I started walking. A girl in her 20s picked me up but made me sit in the back seat with her Malamute. She was super nice and the dog was great I feel like that stopped being a thing in the seventies when there were a bunch at famous serial killers active at the same time. Not really as popular as it was some people do it... Its safer than it would seem if youre smart about it... Also depends who you are and where you are too.... A 50 yr old man hitching town to town is safer than a teenager at a truck stop. Where I’m from still is one of those low violent crime areas. I would hitchhike into 1990 before I left for the military. However in 1993 while home on leave the mother of some brothers I grew up with wouldn’t say friends but we were friendly school played ball small rural area stuff she drove the bookmobile in the area picked up a guy had a single car accident because that’s what you did and was stabbed to death. The guy had mental health issues and was having an episode. Literally the worst thing they say could happen happened. https//www.psucollegian.com/archives/allegedmurdererarrested/article_bed35c11d9f051978e410bb226040f01.html That ended it back home. Occasionally near ski resorts in Colorado one carrying a pair of skis or a snowboard will get a ride from me but no where else. Was extremely common in the 1970’s until Ted Bundy and other serial killers started making the news Not safe and nobody really does it back in the 80s when I was a teenager I decided to hitchhike from Atlanta to Miami holy shit I am lucky to have survived. It’s pretty rare now and it’s never really been safe but I used to pick up hitchhikers pretty regularly when I was in my early 20s. Why? I don’t know. It is not safe. For either the hitchhikers or the drivers. Not exactly hitchhiking but here around DC is still a thing though not as popular as it used to be. Its like something between organized hitchhiking and a decentralized bus service. I accepted a ride from someone about 3035 years ago. I wasnt hitching but I ran out of gas and started walking. A guy pulled over and offered me a ride so I accepted. I was a little nervous but he seemed OK and it was only about a 10 minute ride. A couple of years ago I was on my way home and there was some construction on a road near my neighborhood. It was about 90° out and I had the doors off of my Jeep and the top down. I saw a woman who was probably 2830 years old going up to cars sitting in line that were waiting to be allowed to go forward and figured she was probably begging for money. She had on a short black dress but no shoes and she made her way to me. She didnt ask for money but asked if I had any water. I told her I didnt but felt kind of bad when I got home. I grabbed two bottles of water and went back. I pulled over and offered her the water and she asked me for a ride. I said Youre not going to rob and kill me are you? She said Are you going to rob and kill *me?* I told her to get in and asked where she was going but she wanted a ride somewhere that was about 30 minutes away and I was expecting an HVAC repair technician shortly. I dropped her off at a church nearby and she seemed reluctant to get out but she finally did. The second situation was a bit weird and I probably wouldnt do it again. An idiot in my town gave a strangers a ride and they robbed him a gunpoint. Hitchhiking is not safe. You could end up in a serial killer or rapist’s vehicle. Hitchhikers are fools for putting their lives in danger. I see it every day working in Lakewood New Jersey. Its very common among the hasidic and orthodox Jewish communities. It’s very common outside cities. Hikers often hitch into town. Locals know we often smell like smoke and B O. Many rides in the back of pickup. Just like the 1970’s. Its illegal in my state It’s funny you say that I literally just saw someone do that on my way home from work. It was really strange since I’ve never seen it. It was outside a dollar general late at night so the guy must’ve been pretty desperate for a ride. It is absolutely not safe for either party. If you’re picking up someone you don’t know if they’re violent or a fugitive and if you’re the one doing you don’t know if the person picking you up is violent or a fugitive. It’s still a thing. It’s never been safe. I did pick up one when I was 18. Was throwing his thumb around my town during a downpour late at night. He said his fiends left him after a night of drinking. I drove him back to the city about 25 minutes away then went back home. This was over 10 years ago Serious question but what’s the difference between hitchhiking and ride sharing services like Uber? Ive picked up a couple hitchikers but Inwas always armed when I did so. It is for me. I mean the odds of two serial killers ending up in the the same vehicle is pretty low. No and no No and NO! When I was a college student around 19701976 it was common to hitch hike home for the weekend and common to pick up hitchhikers when I got a car. Around 1980 it seemed like any hitch hiker I picked up was a problem. Either they were angry racists in New England mentally ill asking for money or a ride far out of my route etc. Times had changed and I decided it was no longer possible to do someone a kindness like that. Still a thing. Ive done it a few times. Not safe never has been and I doubt it ever will be lol I haven’t seen a hitchhiker in years. I don’t think it was ever safe at least not in my lifetime. Hell to the no!!!! Was it ever? It’s rare now and many states have strict laws against it and more people are aware about the dangers of hitchhiking/hitchhikers Rarely see hitchhikers anymore so I would say not much of a thing now. I hitched rides quite a bit back in late 70s and early 80s. I would bet that hitchhiking has fallen off since cars are much much better made now and most people of driving age have ready access to a car when needed. Years ago it was unusual to find families with more than one or two cars and now that is common. Also folks have cell phones so they can call for help when that wasnt possible in the past. I think it is probably safer now but that most people think it is not safer. A lot of the perception is due to media and corresponding lack of coverage decades ago. I cant remember the last time I heard of a bad incident involving hitchhiking however I know of many from the time when I hitched. Agreeing with the other posts Its somewhat normal for short distances in certain outdoorsy activities and vacationy spots. It is pretty common to give AT hikers a ride to town/back to the trailhead to give slackcountry skiers a ride back to the ski resort and somewhere like a beach town to get to/from the beach. Ill note that a common thread in this is a mixture of short physical distance not a lot of routes to take you down and that for at least the first two you were already arguably about as vulnerable walking alone down the road in a rural area. Those are the kinds of things that about the only time most normal people would have ever considered hitchhiking or picking up one. It happens elsewhere but pretty much only among the most desperate people in society. Not anymore. Yes it is to an extent. Ive picked up many strangers. Its always a risk but worth it. One day I popped tires in the snow on poorly maintained roads. I walked to a hotel called my mom sister and dad this was like 2013 and my phone was dead. Well only after an hour did someone finally figure out what happened. Well by then I had committed to walking the 1.5 miles home. So close after a 15 mile commute and a long work day. Well about 40% of the way home and older man in a pick up truck took pity on me. Ive tried to return the favor. Safe? Hell no. First choice? Absolutely not. Still an option? Not like the 80s but still a thing. Yes it’s still a thing and safety depends on where you’re at Hitched all over the country in 201718. Never had any problems. I hitchhiked in the 90s when I was in high school. It lasted until someone offered me money to watch him jerk off. I declined and he dropped me off and I never hitched again after that. I’ve hitchhiked exactly once in my life when my car broke down and having no cell phone in the 1990s I walked along a very busy highway to the nearest exit. Someone stopped picked me up and dropped me off at the exit. There were no problems but I would never do something like that today. I would never pick up a hitchhiker. Especially these days. It depends. On the side of the freeway not really. Theres a sense that the only people hitchhiking are sketchy and the only people picking them up are even sketcheir. However Ive hitchhiked out of the mountains before when my truck broke down and there was no cell service. I hopped in the back of their truck and got a ride back into town. In college my friends and I also used to hitchhike down to where the bars were which was about a mile walk. Wed be walking down the sidewalk with our thumbs out and occasionally someone would stop and ask where we were going wed say the bars theyd say me too and wed hop in for a ride. That said the examples I gave were in a smaller town of around 10000 residents. So there was a lot more trust than you see in larger cities. I still pick up hitchhikers in Yellowstone and RMNP. They are hikers who need a lift back to camp or out to a trailhead. Otherwise I wont give rides unless I know them. People still do it occasionally if theyre stranded in the middle of nowhere. But the old days of people hitchhiking across the country are long gone. Its as safe as any encounter with a stranger in a confined space. Youll probably be fine but weve all heard the horror stories. I wouldnt recommend it if youre alone or a woman. It happens but I sure as hell wouldnt do it being a girl. In the late 90s I was 24 and picked up a hitchhiker while on a road trip with a friend. You would have thought the world ended after I told my mom and how she reacted. He was one of the coolest guys I ever met. He was from Alaska and spent his life hitchhiking around the country. He was heading to Florida to go to his neice wedding. He used my phone to call his family in Alaska. We took him from beckley wv to Charlotte gave him a few dollars and wished him good luck. No. However my girlfriend and I hitchhiked many times on vacation in the U.S. Virgin Islands. Its apparently still very common there. Yes and no. Yes it’s done. No it’s not safe. I see it more often in Germany where I live and 90% of the time it’s journeymen carpenters or the like. You can tell by the clothes they wear. My grandfather told me stories about hitchhiking home after returning from WW2. It wasn’t safe then. Most people won’t pick up hitchhikers so the practice has died off. Its not as common as it was in the first seven or eight decades of the 20th century. It was pretty common up until the early 1950s particularly among parts of the population who were likely to be far from home and unlikely to own an automobile such as college students who would not infrequently hitchhike home for breaks and folks in the military who would sometimes hitchhike home on leave. African Americans were less likely to have access to automobile ownership and would sometimes have to rely on hitchhiking. From the Montgomery Bus Boycott to organizers like Bayard Rustin to volunteers hitching south for Freedom Summer 1964 hitchhiking was a not insignificant component of the Civil Rights movement. Hitching became much less common by the 1970s and by the 1980s had pretty much died out as a widespread phenomenon. Warning personal anecdotal evidence ahead ... as a kid growing up in the Mountain West in the late 1970s and 1980s I remember a time when it would have been unusual for me to travel long distances especially in or near national parks and not see at least one hitchhiker. But by the mid 1980s they had all but vanished. There are several reasons it became less common but the four most significant are a car ownership continued to expand meaning there were fewer people who needed to rely on hitchhiking to get around b the infrastructure became less hospitable to it as the open road gave way to the limited access highway of the Interstate Highway System which began in the late 1950s and was pretty extensivethough still not completeby the late 1970s while at the same time c other means of traveling long distance became more accessible and d there was an extensive propaganda campaign against it mostly as a reaction to the counterculture and the Civil Rights movement. J. Edgar Hoover who hated the Civil Rights movement and the counterculture helped lead the charge in the late 50s put out by the FBI at the time. Towns and cities passed laws against it and the press and popular culture turned steadily against it in the next decade or two. Post 88 Why do people talk more and seem to care more about the Challenger explosion in the 80’s than the Columbia explosion in the 2000’s? I’ve just noticed that I hear way more about the Challenger than I do about Columbia which is weird because aren’t they similar tragedies? Why is one given more attention than the other? Is it because it happened first? Is it because a teacher was on board? But hey I’m biased too. One of my childhood friends dad worked for NASA when the Columbia explosion happened and so that incident was very closetohome for her. So it seems unfair to me that everyone talks about Challenger and not so much Columbia. The Challenger was highly hyped up due to the school teacher Christa McCullough being on the flight. And because of that pretty much every school kid in the country had a tv cart in the classroom and got to watch it blow up live and in person. The Challenger explosion just had a more direct impact on many more people. Because an entire generation of Americans were watching the Challenger launch at school. We watched it in real time. 1. The Challenger explosion looked more dramatic 2. The Challenger was a highly marketed event and kids across the nation saw this happen live on TV in their classroom 3. Correct me if I’m wrong but Columbia blew up when trying to reenter the atmosphere while challenger happened at lift off. The latter tends to be more dramatic because more eyes are on it and the mission couldn’t even start 4. This might be a stretch but 1986 was still the Cold War and the US focused a lot more on the space race and that sort of technology especially during the Reagan years. Seeing this happened appears to be a dramatic failure with US space tech while when the Columbia occurred space tech and travel wasn’t as widely cared about or followed as much. I could be completely wrong on this point though. A lot of kids watched the Challenger explode live on TV so it’s a formative memory for many Gen Xers. By the time Columbia came around we knew shuttle travel was dangerous. Basically. Challenger was the first and the first always hits harder. Plus it was broadcast live or in the case of the UK near live directly to children. In the UK the news of Challenger blowing up was broken in a news show for kids. BBC Newsround Because millions of school children were watching live when Challenger exploded. I think the biggest reason is that so many schools broadcast the launch to their students live. Barely anyone saw the Columbia explode live and even fewer of them were children. Seeing something like that burns into your memory. I still recall that experience vividly almost 40 years later. For me the 86 Challenger disaster hit hard because I was in 5th grade had a model of the Challenger the teacher on the Challenger was from a school not far from where I lived. We had had a freak winter flood in Maine and were out of school and I was in the living room of a friend down the street watching it live as it happened. For the Columbia I think I was already numb from 9/11 the global war on terror and watching my friends come back from the war that it just didn’t hit as hard. And nobody remembers Apollo 1. Apollo 13 was also largely forgotten until the movie. Now to answer your question It was the first big news story for Generation X. The where were you when... event. So many kids and teens watched this happen LIVE in school. Unless you were a space nerd like me nobody remembered Apollo 13 or even Apollo 1. President Reagan had declared the Shuttle fully operational after the fourth mission. By this the 25th mission public interest has waned and only CNN covered the launches live. I think the simple reason is because the Challenger broke apart during its ascent into space while Columbia was during the return. Many more people watch space launches than they do spacecraft returns to earth. This means many people saw the Challenger disaster and were more directly affected by the tragedy having witnessed it in real time. With Columbia it was more likely it was just something people learned about on the news or read about in the newspaper. From a public administration standpoint the Challenger was a major embarsement for highlevel unelected bureaucrats who got caught refusing to listen to engineers and instead worrying about politics. It also shined light into federal government contracting Its also just very memorable when a teacher gets killed on live TV for the nations children to see because the unelected bureaucrats were more worried about next years budget then they were about safety That there was a civilian on it and that most schools were watching it live meant it was a I remember what I was doing moment for so many of us. FYI there’s a really interesting book called Bringing Columbia Home that’s about the search and recovery operation. I wonder if part of is it that the Challenger explosion happened during liftoff as opposed to reentry. More people were probably watching it live + the element of a teacher/nonastronaut” on board helping it stick in the country’s collective consciousness. Yes both were tragic but every class room with a TV and anyone at home was watching the Challenger when it exploded. Not so with the Columbia. It was a week later i even knew about the Columbia. Our school principal ran from room to room tears streaming down face yelling that the Space Shuttle exploded in panicked voice I wasnt old enough to watch the TV cart in library. He even rousted the kindergarten. Because my highschool principal started an assembly with a laundry list of terrible Challenger jokes and that is impossible to forget The inclusion of christa mcauliffe on the flight crew of the challenger. she was selected for the teachers in space program and was set to be the first teacher in space though she also acted as a payload specialist for the mission. Her inclusion made the challenger launch a momentous occasion and as such many families homes and schools played the launch and subsequent disaster live. The columbia disaster also occured during reentry not launch which while equally tragic was less dramatic than the challenger. I wasn’t alive when the Challenger disaster happened but I have to imagine a lot of it has to do with the school teacher who was going up with the crew. It’s devastating anytime there’s loss of life in situation like this but I think having a regular” person involved makes the tragedy hit home for the general public. Not saying this means no one should care about the Columbia disaster that is a tragedy too. That one I was alive for and I remember that day very vividly. I assume it has to do with the timing of the event. When Challenger exploded virtually every classroom was tuned into the broadcast. It was a very big deal. This created a literal generation of people who experienced the event in real time. That trauma combined with the young age of the many observers made for a memorable event that many talked about and related to. I cant speak to how well schools were tracking Columbia but I only learned of the accident on the evening news not in real time. I suspect the school audience was much smaller for that event possibly due to the previous event which generated less buzz. Anecdotally I view the Columbia event as the nail in the coffin for the shuttle program. After that event it was only a matter of time before the program was ended/abandoned. As everyone has stated so far it was something all kids’ eyes were affixed to but I also think as kids we were more n the midst of the Cold War propaganda machine that has led to the current day flag porn you see. In 2003 we were still off balance from 9/11 and already a little braced for further tragedy. We weren’t as invincible” in ‘03 as we were in ‘86 psychologically speaking so the shock was less. The Columbia exploded during reentry right? I think that’s one of the main differences since we have video footage of the Challenger exploding but not anything comparable for the Columbia. I was born between the two so I’ve only heard about the Challenger as a historical event but I actually remember the loss of the Columbia when it happened. Still the Challenger is the one that sticks out more in my mind because I’ve actually seen it. I think most people weren’t aware of the Columbia before the explosion either so it was a very different scenario in reporting a tragic incident that happened vs seeing a highly anticipated incident go wrong. I think its the civilian thing plus it being the first real major inflight catastrophe for the space program. All previous astronaut fatalities had either been in trainer aircraft accidents or a onground test fire nothing during an actual mission. None of the public thought anything would go wrong. The shuttle was supposed to make space flight routine and most people got blase about it. It LOOKED slicker and fancier and more scifi than the Apollo program so it MUST be better. That it wasnt and that the SRB manufacturers own engineers had been repeatedly saying there were serious dangers to launch dangers that any actual rocket scientist would recognize\* was actually shocking to the public. That NASA admin and the contractors ultimately placed looking good and scoring points with Washington over mission safety seemed surprising back then. By the time Columbia rolled around while many people got MAD I mostly felt rage because it was clear right off this was another yeah we know its not very safe and we cut corners but weve completely wiped how that went with Challenger from our minds and assume well keep getting away with it nobody this time was surprised a government agency was being careless. The reality was if a horse is a camel designed by committee the space shuttle was a camel designed by a committee who thought they were building an elephant. It was absurdly complicated and expensive to operate and had THOUSANDS of critical failure points where if that one thing went wrong you could lose the spacecraft. But the pressure was to create LEO heavylift reusable launch vehicles not space exploration and thats what they came up with. And while there were exponentially more poor engineering choices in the Soviet program it should have been a hint that once the Russians got a system that worked to reliably place humans and tools in orbit and get the humans back in one piece they stuck with it. Even they realized with one attempt a shuttle design was not worth the money. With Challenger that theyd do something like that was still shocking. By the 2000s nobody was shocked a government agency would do something that careless. \*My father was an aerospace engineer in the Sixties. By the time the Challenge was launched hed switched to the auto industry but hed started at McDonnell working on Gemini and had worked on rockets and missiles for Boeing and General Dynamics. He remembered driving to work the morning of the Challenger launch listening to the radio describe the ice on the launch gantry and knocking it off the tanks and thinking Well theyre going to scrub it again. When he got to work people were setting up to watch in their break room and when they said oh yeah TV says its on he replied They cant launch those rockets in freezing conditions its dangerous. Which is of course EXACTLY what the engineers at Morton Thiokol had been telling their management since they first saw the seal damage on used boosters. For the actual engineers doing the work that was obvious. But their bosses didnt want to be the ones who messed up this public a circus and the NASA brass needed to score points by giving the President and Congress something to brag about which would lead to more money for NASA. But if you hadnt been employed by a government contractor they idea people would do something like that was still kind of shocking in 1984. To add to what others have said Challenger is a case study in engineering ethics. It was a failure of management and leadership and a failure of reporting within the company Morton Thiokol that built the ORings that led to the disaster. It is still taught in engineering classes every year. Columbia on the other hand was more or less an accident. I study this sort of thing for a living. Like others said Challenger blew up live and in color on national TV. It was hyped because of the teacher on board which attracted that whole school audience. And it happened a convenient time for most people particularly in the Eastern half of the United States to watch live. And when it did blow up it was visually compelling and truly awful. Columbia didnt explode as much as it broke up on reentry out of sight of most people and the visuals werent as compelling. Its interesting that both these accidents revealed serious shortcomings in how NASA makes decisions around safety matters Columbia showed that NASA apparently didnt learn as much from Challenger as they thought they did. Different situation and different times mainly. Challenger happened on a weekday in an era when everyone got their news from the main TV networks. Challenger had completed so many missions without hardly a hitch so it was deemed safe enough to bring a civi into the pool. School teacher Christa McCullough was picked and NASA went to a ton of effort to promote the first Teacher in Space Project participant. I remember her on the news on all the major TV stations every single time it aired for weeks prior to the launch. There were interviews with McCullough she was on talk shows they even gave all the news stations video of her preparing for the launch. Due to all of that every school age kid in the US was watching when Challenger lifted off. And every one of them saw it explode. Columbia was different. People in that era got their news from a multitude of sources. It had been so many years since Challenger and a lot of launches in the interim. People werent as excited in general about anything relating to the program. A great many people were probably unaware it was happening that day. And it broke up at before 9 am in the morning on a Saturday morning so many were either sleeping off the night before or sleepily starting their day. I actually remember Columbia far more than I remember Challenger. For Challenger I was at work and did not hear anything about it until I picked my kids up from school. I recall going home and seeing the footage of the explosion being replayed on every 5 pm news show. With Columbia I was driving down the highway south out of the Dallas metro area on a two lane country highway heading to where my parents lived in East Texas. I was listening to a CD when a group of white panel vans with various strange antennas came flying low and passing everyone like they were standing still. Then came the news vans trying to catch up. Realizing something was going down I turned on the radio just in time to hear it was believed the space shuttle had suffered a catastrophic failure and broken up as it streaked across the sky. It was an East Texas station out of TylerLongview and they were saying it was being reported the crash site was in the area. By the time I reached my parents home in a tiny town near Tyler several of their friends and neighbors had had pieces of the shuttle land on their property. My sister was working as a reporter for my parents small town newspaper and was out at the home of some of my parents friends. Theyd called my parents to have them ask my sister who they should call about a large piece of space shuttle in their pasture. Through the next few weeks pieces kept being found all around the area where my parents lived which at that time was mostly small towns and miles of ranch land. People knew my parents and my sister so they were often called about finds. My sister also got to go out with the crews searching along with the reporters from the big TV stations. She called me one night just to talk about the experience. She was present when one of the search crew members found a helmet. She said it wasnt empty. She wrote a story about the search that got picked up by the AP wire. After working 4 years to get her degree in news reporting and another 3 working to earn her stripes she left to pursue work in a different sector before a year was out after the disaster. I can think of a couple reasons that might apply. Challenger was the first big disaster for NASA there was a civilian teacher on the rocket and *every* school was showing the launch ~~and Columbia had a *much* bigger disaster the year after that kinda overshadowed it.~~ Edit had the years wrong. Old person memory continues to fail me. In any case we were well into the 24 hour news cycle and becoming desensitized to bad news by that point. I think it was at least partially because there was a teacher onboard that it seemed like all schools at the time were watching it live. It’s because there was a teacher on board. In particular there was a lot of PR leading up to the mission emphasized the special nature of this putting a teacher in space. It’s also because the shuttle program was only 5 years old at the time Challenger exploded so it was very much newer and more exciting. I think there are a few reasons. I think you are right about the civilian being on board. It was sold as the teacher going was this grand thing for a civilian and it cost her her life. During the time of the Challenger going to space was kind of a popular thing. There are tons of schools that let kids watch the launch live during class. The Challenger happened live on TV. Others lost their lives before the Challenger. I could be wrong but I believe the Challenger was the first space disaster that was watched real time live with no survivors. Not putting the space program or the Columbia but by 2003 shuttle launches were so routine a lot of people had zero idea that a launch even happened. The public kinda lost interest in space Challenger was highly televised especially in schools because of the teacher. A lot of people watched it happen in real time as a child and that leaves a big impression on people. My guess is that for all of the folks who lived through it the Challenger was a waaaay more publicized event than the Columbia. I didnt really have consciousness yet at my age but my sisters mom dad cousins and pretty much everyone i know have all have mentioned that that specific Challenger mission was a big deal because it had Christa McAuliffe on board. She had become a sort of *light celebrity* because she was shown to the world as a teacher and was just a regular person who was going up to space so it was a big deal for a lot of people. Plus millions of people kids included were at school WATCHING the Challenger mission at the time of the explosion. That has to have had a huge impact on an impressionable young minds opinion on the whole event. Not to trash the final Columbia mission but it wasnt some big marketed thing for all of us to tune into and so it wasnt as big of a deal as seeing our *hero* perish on live TV. Challenger happened on a school day when most kids were watching it blow up live on tv. Columbia disintegrated back to Earth on a weekend. Additionally it’s covered in professional settings too. It would be very hard to get an engineering degree in the US without studying the Challenger disaster. Because every school kid in America was forced to watch the Challenger take off live. Columbia was just a news event you found out about when it happened Challenger exploded on takeoff. Millions were watching including many kids in schools as a teacher was going up. Everyone was pretty much aware of what was happening. It was caught on camera in a spectacular explosion. Columbia was as it was descending no cameras were on it and nobody was watching when it broke up. After the Challenger exploded it knocked the wind out of the sails of the live broadcasting publicity and entire shuttle program for that matter. When I saw the Challenger explode in Kindergarten they shut off the T.V. teachers communed in the hall came back in and explained what happened in a counseled way. It wasn’t a good day for anyone watching. The Challenger had civilians on it. And because there were teachers on board the mission was going to be used to teach kids about space so they had all of us kids watching it. That Challenger flight was a pioneering flight that drew audiences from all over but particularly children gathered in schools. In those days TVs werent in every room they had to be carted in or the whole class would march to a room with a big screen. They were special and exciting occasions and space flights were still big American Cold War I hate to say propaganda. The USSR did every space venture first except for landing on the moon. The U.S. went ham in spacefaring from that constantly flexing but tapered off at the end of the Cold War. *NASAs budget is shockingly small.* Columbia was business as usual that had a tragic accident. I think besides the school children aspect of it one was taking off and one was landing taking off is more…..exciting. The Challenger launch had a few things going for it it was widely publicized due to the addition of a nonastronaut. Because of that it had a huge viewership. Plus a launch is more of an event than a landing so its more likely to be filmed plus it translates better on camera. A lot of us watched it live in school. It was a big deal because there was a teacher on board. I have a memory of being an 8 year old 3rd grader and watching the shuttle explode live. Columbiavirtually nobody even knew it was flying. I remember Challenger I was already like 23. I remember the TV coverage of both mostly because I’ve been a NASA nerd most of my life. I was 5 when Apollo 11 landed on the moon and is the event that made me want to be an engineer. Challenger is also taught in engineering classes design testing ethics. I don’t know about Columbia since I was out of school by then. I go into schools and speak on Apollo 1 Apollo 13 Challenger and Columbia. The kids are usually riveted and ask great questions. The Challenger disaster happened live on TV also because the first school teacher going to space was on it almost every class room in the US had a TV in it and tuned to the broadcast. Also afterward everyone was sort of waiting in anticipation of another shuttle to be lost. By comparison there was no video of Columbia just odd bits of debris found here and there I live on the edge of the Columbia debris field a chunk weighing a few pounds was found behind the place I was working at the time so I may be more aware of Columbia than most. The timing emphasized this too Challenger exploded on a Tuesday during work/school hours of the entire continental U.S. and Columbia exploded on a Saturday early enough in the morning that much of the country was still sleeping. My anecdote about Columbia is that our teacher had us write an essay in class about our thoughts about the disaster and did not excuse me even after I explained that I had not watched the news over the weekend and had no idea what she was talking about. Also frankly 9/11 was still a big enough deal even a year and a half out that Columbia was never going to be the big tragedy for Millennial schoolchildren that Challenger was for Gen X. If it could have been blamed on terrorists somehow Im sure it would have been more widely talked about I live in the part of Texas where Columbia exploded. It happened very early in the morning on a Saturday and most people were still asleep. People claim it shook their houses and maybe so but it didn’t mine. People just didn’t witness it happen like the Challenger. More people were watching because it was a launch. Also first teacher in space so many classrooms were tuned in. I think another part that people are not touching on is that the Challenger explosion could have been prevented. There were multiple engineers that raised issues with the Orings that ended up failing. An engineer by the name of Roger Boisjoly wrote about it in a memo 6 months prior to the launch warning of A catastrophe of the highest order. All the way up to the launch he objected and was ignored. I think among what others have said that plays into why it stands out more in the mind of Americans. It just did not have to happen I remember coming home after school and wanting to watch TV but my parents had a friend or two over and they were all watching the news and I watched the shuttle blow up over and over. I wanted to watch that cartoon That show was badass. Theres live realtime footage of the Challenger accident which was an explosion. Shuttle flights were thought to be safe when Challenger happened. Columbia was not an explosion and theres no footage of the event... just of the debris field flying along AFTER the event. Since Columbia happened second the safety assumption was gone so it wasnt as shocking. I think the Columbia disaster’s role in public discourse was largely to reinforce the point that Challenger had already made that the shuttle program was not successful. Revelation tends to have more staying power than supporting evidence. There was also a lot going on in the national conversation in 2003 that the Columbia disaster didn’t mesh with as well as the Challenger disaster did in 1986. In 2003 we were getting into a shooting war in two countries and had just seen thousands of Americans die on TV news in 1986 we were in a prolonged but relatively nonviolent standoff with another spacefaring power with which we compared ourselves at every opportunity and the concept of masstelevised death was relatively novel. Not only did we watch it in school there was a distinct lack of understanding about what happened for a time. In hindsight it seems obvious but people really werent sure what happened at first. Seeing the boosters shoot off to the sides made a lot of people think that it was just some malfunction with the boosters and it took some matter of time for even the newscast to fully digest what was going on. I remember getting that same feeling when I was getting ready for work on 9/11 shortly after the first plane had hit and the news was reporting it as if it were an accident. We didnt see it live but they brought in each class one at a time to a classroom to watch the news reports about it for a bit 15 minutes?. I was always told a teacher from a nearby school was the alternate/backup to be on that flight. But last I searched about it thats just not true. Either the top alternate wasnt this teacher or there was literally hundreds or thousands of alternates across the country so this teacher wasnt quite as close to being on the challenger as we were lead to believe. Because there was a teacher on board MANY school kids were watching it at school as it happened particularly in New England where Christa McAuliffe was from. The local affiliates all got live feeds and were broadcasting it so the schools could watch. I still very much remember it. We were going on a field trip when it happened and a teacher ran out to the buss to inform us just as it left. When we got to our destination it turns out they had a TV on with the coverage going and we all stood and watched the postexplosion coverage for about 20 minutes before we were pulled away by our teacher. We all watched Challenger explode as kids. But also I think Bush was looking to find an excuse to shut down the shuttle program and this provided a convenient out. They didn’t want to keep it in the news cycle and get people worked up over it more than they had to. But that is only my theory I’ve not much to base that on. I will say though that with Columbia we had in cockpit footage of their last moments and that haunts me. I refused to watch it after that first time… For whatever reason we didn’t have school in my district that day teacher workday or something but it was broadcast live on all the major American tv networks and I still saw it happen live. The launch interrupted my grandma’s stories” probably The Young And The Restless and it was around lunchtime so I was likely sitting on the couch with a peanut butter sandwich watching as it occurred. It gets more conversation because it was broadcast live around the country and millions of kids watched in horror as it happened. If I remember correctly the Columbia explosion had already happened when we heard about it. People saw the Challenger go boom on TV. When it happened it was a unique event in American space exploration history. Challenger was a HUGE national interest story before it even blew up and hundreds of thousands of school children were watching it live on TV. The vast majority of the country didnt even know Columbia was in space never mind returning that day before it exploded on reentry. I would guess collective childhood trauma. I was in grade school and we were watching it happen on tv’s in our classrooms. I have a vivid memory of that day still. Dont remember why but I was home that day and heard about it on the radio We were a verylimitedTV family.... I was 6 so would have been in 1st grade and couldhavebeen in school.... I dont think our school showed the launch to whoever was there.... It was the first. Schools all across America were watching the challenger launch live as a planned activity. I watched Columbia break up live but thats just because I randomly had CNN on at the time. Im guessing watching the Challenger explode live on tv was a big part of why. An entire generation watched it happen as it happened. I didnt hear about the Columbia explosion until hours later but I saw Challenger explode in real time live on tv. Because a lot of school students were watching the Challenger launch live there was a teacher onboard for the mission and a lot of schools made it part of their curriculum. I watched the challenger blow up on live tv from my first grade lunchroom. Columbia I sort of heard it’s missing at a time long past when I have become jaded by continuously awful news. That’s why. Every school watched that launch and explosion. The breakup of Columbia during reentry was less cinematic. No one asks What were you doing when Columbia disintegrated during reentry?” School children witnessed it live on TV and thats pretty traumatic. Plus Reagan gave a wellreceived speech after it Challenger was unexpected. We didn’t know it was going to have a runaway external H2 combustion. Columbia was different. We knew the foam hit the heat shield and possibly damaged it. The crew deorbited with everyone including the crew knowing there was a chance they were going to die if the heat shield failed. I think it’s because by the time Columbia exploded the space shuttle program had already been around for decades and it just wasn’t a big deal. For Challenger it was still new. The launches were still televised. And for that particular one it was the first civilian going up. Watching the disaster on live TV was one of those generationally defining moments. Ask a Gen Xer where they were that day and there’s a good chance they will be able to tell you. Me? I was in fifth grade and school was canceled that day because of snow. Because millions watched the Challenger Explosion live on TV where most of us slept through the Columbia Disaster because you really didnt watch shuttles return at that point of reentry. The Challenger explosion was in the relative infancy of Space Shuttle missions. Couple that work the increased national publicity of the flight because there was a civilian specialist onboard Christa McColluogh a teacher Add that to the fact that because space flight was still pretty novel and there’s a teacher onboard millions of American children watched the explosion live in classrooms around the country. None of those variables existed for Columbia. People of a certain generation were literally watching it live on television in every school in the country when Challenger exploded. Ill never forget it. We went from cheering to absolute dead silence in a matter of seconds. It was absolute shock. I think it’s a core memory for a lot of people bc kids were watching the launch in school so it was kind of traumatic and also the first time a female nonastronaut went up Because they brought TVs into the classrooms to watch the Challenger launch and it was seen by millions the shuttle program was relatively new then as well. The footage of the Columbia is just graining video from far away without anything significantly dramatic happening. Add to that the program wasnt new at that time. So many kids watching it happen live in school I still remember being told by someone who watched it in another class and thought it was a bad joke until an announcement was made shortly afterwards It was the first shuttle disaster Christa McAuliffe a schoolteacher was a member of the crew and the launch and explosion were broadcast live including in many school classrooms. McAuliffes parents were at the launch site and cameras lingered on their concern and confusion after the explosion. Such immediate video coverage was impossible with the Columbia as that disaster occurred during reentry. The Challenger happened on liftoff an event that was televised as liftoffs often are. There was a lot of buzz around the Space Program in general in those years and particularly this mission as it included a schoolteacher. Some schools were able to let students watch the live broadcast in real time my school was not one of those. We knew the liftoff was scheduled for that day and I remember the school principal making an announcement on the PA what had happened. Columbia by comparison happened on reentry. Typically the only footage the general public saw of reentry was a Space Shuttle taxiing down the runway which was not nearly as momentous an event as a liftoff. The Columbia disaster happened on a Saturday when fewer people are at their desks or otherwised plugged into the news. I do remember hearing about it that day I was in my 20s and out of town visiting friends. It was sad but what captured the imagination and horror of the Challenger was that it happened on live TV and it was an explosion. I JUST finished listening to Challenger A True Story of Heroism and Disaster on the Edge of Space by Adam Higgenbotham. Its fascinating. The book is 17 hours and 10 minutes long. The last chapter the author says in 2003 the Columbia disaster occurred granted the book is about Challenger not Columbia and Im paraphrasing but I was like thats it? Were not gonna talk about that at all? My take is the same as most everyone else. It was because Christa McAuliffe. She was basically an every persons kind of hero. Civilian being present. Propaganda. Some higher ups want it more in the collective unconscious and have ensured the MSM bring it up more. I dont know why anyone would want the public to be propagandized about the Challenger but years ago I read all the passengers sprouted identical twins and same name dopplegangers that coincidentally have similar degrees and work in similar fields. I dont know if its real or not but it was trippy. The Challenger crash was before the Internet and the article had said there was something highly suspect about it that would never pass muster if it had happened after the Internet. Mainly because so many people saw it happen the teacher and the controversy behind the explosion. In addition to whatever others have said about the Challenger launch having by way more eyes on it even before it went wrong there simply isnt room in the zeitgeist for the Columbia loss to stick. Challenger already occupied down the space shuttle disaster slot such that a second could never have the same impact and 9/11 locked down the early 2000s generation defining where were you when? moment slot. Possibly because of what we learned after the fact the Challenger explosion was preventable if the safety experts had been listened to. The O rings failing was just so stupid and compared to the loss of life an easy fix if they had delayed the mission. Columbia was a failure in the heat shielding thats a known and accepted risk. Same reason everyone can tell you that Neil Armstrong was the first to land a spaceship on the moon but far fewer people can tell you that Pete Conrad was the second. A few reasons * the Challenger had a teacher on board * it was widely broadcast I’d venture to guess most American schoolchildren watched it live * return trips aren’t usually very exciting — there’s usually not a lot to see until the landing and it’s hard to get camera footage of the whole thing or at least it was harder in the early 2000s * Columbia happened in 2002 IIRC. The U.S. was still being dominated by 9/11 news and the war in Afghanistan * events that you witness live are going to have more emotional impact than ones you hear about later as a personal anecdote the infamous OJ chase had very little impact on me because I wasn’t aware of it till a few weeks later I honestly think this is such a good question! I didnt even know about the Columbia explosion until about 6 months ago and I was an adult when it happened! When I read about it I was honestly shocked Challenger was a big core memory for Gen X. It was hyped for kids and even show live in schools because of the school teacher who was going to space. And there was still a lot of excitement about the space program in the 80s. We also hadnt had a major accident with deaths of astronauts since 1967 and spaceflight had been seen as pretty safe. Challenger was the very first time that American astronauts were killed in flight. We lost three astronauts in in the 1967 Apollo 1 but that was a fire on the ground during testing not during an actual flight. So up until Challenger every single US astronaut that ever took off came back unharmed. Add in the publicity of the mission as other have said and all of the sudden millions of people including many children witnessed the deaths of seven people live on television as well as the first inflight fatalities in NASAs history. Columbia was a big deal. Dont get me wrong. It was frontpage news for weeks. But unfortunately when it comes to accidents the first will always be the worst so to speak. In addition to it being a tragedy broadcast to the world and the first of its kind and the loss of who would have been the first teacher in space and the safety lessons learned from the tragedy it also had a huge impact on the growth US Space Shuttle Program. I grew up in a town called Lompoc which is next to Vandenberg Air Force Base now Vandenberg Space Force Base. Before Challenger Vandenberg was set to become the West Coast launch site for the US Space Shuttle Program. All that was cancelled after Challenger. It not only destroyed local economy it effectively curtailed the growth of the program. I agree the Columbia tragedy deserves more attention but Challenger occurred at the end of the Cold War period and had very deep impacts. Challenger explosion happened on live television which was being shown in many schools. The Columbia wasnt filmed People rarely remember the sequel as fondly as the original One had a teacher with kids watching live and the other was just regular astronauts. I’m not saying both are tragic but something like the first teacher in space killed while her students watch def gets more headlines and sticks with people more. Because it was televised live to thousands of classrooms across the country and so many kids saw it happen in real time. Columbia accident wasnt so it was not burned into peoples memories the same way. Challenger was live for most kids and traumatized a generation. I know columbia better since my aunt was a high up attorney at the time and she had to cut vacation short ironically while we were in Texas visiting the Houston space station. Tv was a huge thing from the 60s90s. Big media ruled the world. Think anchorman the movie. In the 2000 people got more control of their own information. What youre seeing from the 80s is just media all hammering on the same stories. Because the Challenger blew up live on TV. We all watched the video of it over and over afterward. The space shuttle was still relatively new and wondrous at the time. And no American astronauts had ever been lost on a mission before. The Columbia broke up on reentry with basically just NASA watching it happen. By then shuttle missions had become a nonevent and losing astronauts was unfortunately not a new thing. For younger GenX Challenger was a defining national tragedy because they saw it live in the classroom. Columbia was tragic but it wasnt as widely seen as Challenger. Columbia was the 113th mission despite being STS107. By 2003 the Space Shuttle was seen as obsolete old tech instead of a cool new thing theyd been in test or use since 1977. Fool me once shame on you fool me twice shame on me The Challenger accident happened on live TV and Columbia accident didn’t. Also the Challenger had much more publicity because they wanted to send a science teacher into space it was almost Big Bird from Sesame St to encourage more children to be interested in space. We sat in the library around a media cart and watched it happen when we were 10. Post 89 How common is Reddit use in the US? Im from Latin America and in my circle of friends family and work hardly anyone uses Reddit — its more of a niche for techsavvy people. How is it in the US? Do most people use and know about Reddit? I think pretty common but it’s also an unspoken rule that you don’t expose your account to people you know Its fairly well known because it comes up so frequently in Google searches but I only know 3 other adults who use it. And 1 very much fits the stereotype. [deleted] I would say most people know about it but its seen as a site that only nerdy/geeky people actually use. I dont think thats actually true but that seems to be the impression people have of it. I’m sure most of the comments here will say everyone they know uses it but generally a significant chunk of Redditors work in tech and among tech workers Reddit is popular. Generally though most people don’t discuss Reddit like they do Instagram/TikTok/YouTube in real life. In my circle of friends yes. We talk about stuff on Reddit. Weve even run into each other. Anyone else no. But it just doesnt come up so its possible many people I know have Reddit but just dont say anything. Its not as common as Redditors tend to think. In particular over the last 10 years the vibe has shifted from nerdy tech libertarian to something a bit more progressive so its skewed more and more left especially true in many city subreddits due to moderation. Out in the real world? Most people have heard the term and know kind of what it is if they have an online presence at all but in a large area youre probably not going to run into random Redditors outside of meetups with specific communities. Much less common than most Redditors think it is I...isnt the first rule of Reddit that we dont talk about Reddit...outside of Reddit? I have a group of about 13 good buddies. My wife and I are the only ones who use it. I feel like Reddit only exists on the internet. People offline never talk about it or acknowledge it. I often hear people say they saw something on FB IG TikTok etc. but never Reddit. Instagram Twitter and Facebook are definitely the most mainstream social media platforms I wouldn’t say Reddit is as mainstream as those platforms but it’s definitely not as obscure as some people make it out to be either On a scale between Facebook and 4Chan I’d say that it’s smack dab in the middle Reddit skews to a very specific kind of person in the United States. That doesn’t mean everyone on the site reflects that kind of person but the closer you are to it the more likely you’re to use Reddit and the further the less likely. Because of this Reddit is a very poor reflection of the average American or life in the US. Only the weird ones use Reddit. I don’t talk about it in my real life 😂 It’s been getting more and more popular the last year or so I’ve noticed it is one of the most popular websites in the US Almost nobody I know except for my immediate family even knows what Reddit is. Look at who and where you’re asking… 14% of the population. Ultimately not common at all or more people than you think browse/view here but never post. Most opinions thoughts etc that are majorly represented on Reddit but are very rare or fringe in the real world. Heck this board basically exists to dispel the majority of antiAmerican thought on this site that isn’t really prevalent outside of here. The only people I know who use Reddit are nerds Id say pretty much everyone knows it. Most reddit users are frowned upon here lol I’m on my third Reddit account I change accounts every few years. I started using it because I noticed about ten years ago that other sites were sourcing their material from reddit. I only know a few people who use it regularly. I dont know anyone on it. I dont like scrolling videos and I dont like fb Twitter or Instagram. So this is perfect. Reddit use is rare and mostly left leaning individuals. Reddit is only useful as good source for very niche hobbies and interests for those who do not lean left. I work in tech so everyone I know actively uses it. My mom in her 70s has no clue what it is. Im 45F and its not common among my female friends. Male friends yes Not very common among my circle of friends. Most who have used it see it as an echo chamber dominated by teenagers. I’m the only one out of my friends and family that uses it. My technophobic boomer mom even knows what it *is* and she just discovered texting last year. I’m in the US and I am the only one I know personally who uses Reddit. Relatively but only among millennial or younger like my parents have no idea what it is and I’d wager no one in their friend group has one Of people I know its mostly for niche things like advice for their careers or news about our uni I go on Reddit for boredom reading material. Been reading for 368 days so far. Reddits not the sociocultural epicenter a lot of Redditors seem to think it is. Its a fringe phenomenon. The UFO subreddits for example seem convinced that the US government is pouring extraordinary resources into corrupting their threads with misinformation as if this would be the place to plant giant societywide lies debunking space aliens. Almost certainly it would not be. The only people I know who use it actively are people in my IT circle. Everyone else knows what it is but doesnt use it. Its the site you dont admit to using until you know someone really well. Im only one I know Most my friends and family only see/use Reddit when they google something and a Reddit post pops up as an answer. There’s a lot of people who engage with Reddit who don’t have accounts here. They find questions from Google or they see screenshots of popular text posts on Instagram and Twitter. I’d say it’s not very common for people to actually have an account. Most people with an online presence know what Reddit is tho and have seen at least some content originating from here I would suspect that the majority of Americans are familiar with Reddit at least through internet searches for questions that require a little bit of nuance. Using Reddit as a recreational website is less common Realistically it’s a small percent of the population that uses it. Most people have probably heard of it but can’t tell you anything more than the name of the site. niche If I mention Reddit to family or coworkers 90% of them have no idea what I’m talking about. 10% of them do and use it to learn stuff about hobbies or their local communities. Tbh its the same in my opinion. I know a lot of people and no one even mentions reddit. The three people i did know who knew about reddit associated it with porn and hated it Far fewer people have heard of Reddit than say Facebook Twitter and TikTok but if youre online at all youre at least familiar with the name of the site. My friend group is a variety of nerds who all come from a background of either Reddit Tumblr or 4chan as their primary social media and still occasionally go on. Reddit is also still the place to go for niche troubleshooting support so lots of people I know will sometimes do sitereddit.com in Google searches for specific hardware/software problems. I mean I know 4 people that use two of my other friends into the same things as me then my sister and her husband because reddit consistently has good answers Most of my friends are on reddit but we are all introverted nerds with niche interests. You mean like heard of it? 100% of my generation Everyone’s used it before. It’s a running meme that everything you are looking for will always at least have a 15y old Reddit post describing it in detail. If you mention it in conversation people assume you’re a corny neckbeard 😂 I recently read that 52% of Reddit users are from the US so it is more popular within the US than other countries. That being said hardly anyone I know uses Reddit compared to other social media sites/apps. I’ve never met anyone who even knows what Reddit is. Every time I’ve mentioned seeing something cool or interesting on Reddit. What’s Reddit? is the usual response. A lot of people I know use it. However most of those people have niche hobbies and talk about them on their respective subreddits. I’m unaware of anyone who goes to politics ands starts screaming though. Oh and a friend of a friend of a friend apparently advertisers her OF here. Before I start getting messages I don’t know the OF name her Reddit name or her last name. You want to start looking up brunettes named Liz go nuts I guess. https//en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_mostvisited_websites Not as popular as Facebook Instagram etc but more popular than the site formerly known as Twitter. According to statistics it is the 8th largest social media platform in the US. Roughly 18% of users of Facebook which is the largest for comparison. Hard to say since most people dont admit to it or bring it up on their own. But I dont think theres necessarily a stereotype for users with how how vast the subs are on here. I would say definitely more common among leftleaning liberal voters. I feel like that was the case 1015 years ago in the US too. Now everyone seems to use it. It’s the heart or the internet. Its not really common because 30% people use Facebook Meta X IG and other chat apps. Only 14% use Reddit. I discovered Reddit 5 years ago and never went back using Facebook. Sometimes it feels a small group of experts on some subreddits. From what I can tell there are about 50M active US reddit users and somewhere around 200M Americans with view only access use reddit for searching for information. Im not aware of anyone I know that uses reddit. I honestly feel like my age group 2030 are beginning to use it more and more. It used to also be seen as a nerdy site but now I see that the average person has at least used it a few times. Maybe not daily. But some people use it just for niche purposes like maybe sport streams makeup/skincare subreddits subreddits centered around a tv show. Not very common but also not as rare as some might think. I have several times been surprised by someone mentioning using Reddit despite not being in the stereotypical demographic In my family were always finding out we saw the same posts on Reddit when we bring up something interesting we saw. Same with coworkers. Its very popular Id say. Especially with a lot of people leaving Facebook. Its probably better known than used. I dont know a ton of people in my circle that use it. Reddit is anonymous so a lot of people won’t disclose that they post to Reddit. Most of my relatives do not use it. Im the only person in my friend group who uses reddit In 2024 there were 128 million accounts with a US origin. This is most certainly grossly inflated by botting. People with mote than one account etc. Some estimates out real actual usets of reddit in the US at about 50 million. Which is 1/7 Americans or 14%. Thisnisnan importsnt thing to note when you occasionally see reddit is not the real world as its very true. So font yake mainstream opinions here as indicative of mainstream opinion of actual Americans writ large. yes Reddit is one of the most visited sites in the US but the overwhelming majority of those visits are from users who don’t have accounts finding a thread through organic Google search. Redditor” in the sense of a person with an account who uses the site frequently is very much seen as a pejorative when people imagine the typical Redditor”. I don’t know of anybody personally that uses it. Doesn’t mean they don’t but they don’t as far as I can tell I’m on it every day. Im the only person that I know that is on reddit. Even my kids are not on it. West US. Im the only person I know who uses reddit. It’s for folks addicted to their phones or for folks with too much time on their hands. It’s honestly hard to say. Unlike other social media redditors generally don’t give their username to friends or family. I’m 32m seems relevant. I have to assume that none of my friends use reddit because when they post things in the group chat it’s never from reddit. It’s almost always from facebook or youtube. I’m the only one who ever shares things from reddit. My girlfriend uses reddit and I know of one coworker in their 40s who does. Its a decently sized part of American internet culture though Redditors as an archetype are frowned upon lol. Most peoples experience with the platform is I have a very specific problem but hopefully someone on Reddit had that same problem 8 years ago and found a solution or those videos with Reddit stories narrated by bots that get reposted all over tiktok and youtube. So its not like hated but if youre actually spending a good amount of time on here youll get odd looks and maybe some concern. Or at least I do bc I go insane every few months and having Reddit did NOT help lmao. Im 21 though and my parents arent on social media so idk about other demographics. About 14% of Americans have used reddit. To compare to close to 60% for Instagram 32% for Twitter and 83% for YouTube. On top of reddit being not as well known it also leans towards one political aisle but the hints such as Instagram and YouTube do not as much Twitter preX probably in a similar boat It’s clocks around 800 million monthly clicks from the US so fairly popular I’d say. I don’t think people talk about it as much as other social media and yes it IS social media because of the anonymity aspect. People don’t want people trying to find them on here. Not uncommon to see people venting about their jobs asking about sketchy shit going on at work making fun of people in their friend group/coworkers/families. The kind of stuff you’d rather people not see. I know I try not to give any real details in comments and posts I’m a middle aged woman in the Midwest. I work in an office my position is not tech related. I have no idea how many people I know use Reddit regularly. In my circles Facebook is very common and I suspect Reddit is not. But I don’t really know because I don’t talk about it. It’s more like I come to Reddit for news and topics that I’m not already discussing with people I personally know. Of course all my coworkers could also be on Reddit right now. No telling really. If you google a question Reddit usually comes up in the first page of results. A lot of people have heard or looked at Reddit but they might not have used it. It’s probably similar to the bodybuilding form from back in the day According to Wikipedia Reddit is the 9th most visited website in the world between Wikipedia and Yahoo Please tell everyone you know that the internet is just something Americans use to make everyone else crazy and less productive. Including ourselves. America is the #1 example of this. Save your brain. Stay off the internet. Especially Reddit Not very popular. I don’t have any friends who use it only my fiancé and myself. The only people that I know that use it are friends who Ive shown it to ... So like 2 other people I know 14% of the US population uses reddit. Thats a LOT of people but a low percent of people. Not too many in my circles. Most people I spend time with know of Reddit but don’t use it themselves. It also has a bit of a stigma for being excessively left wing among people who are politically involved. I wonder as well. Im 60 and Im here every day but I dont think my peers are using it. Do you use google? Because your answer is found pretty easily there Basically a niche for a lot of haters and negativity. I’m just here for lifting weights and retro gaming lol My mom was on here before she passed. Surprised the hell out of my sister and me when she mentioned it. I know quite a few my age proud boomer 😅 who use it. Most of us probably started because of search results. Most of us stayed because its a welcome alternative to FaceAche. Its the vibe of the thing that keeps me here. 🤷‍♀️ Regular Reddit users are not very common. Most people know Reddit as a place Google sent them for an answer to some random question. Reddit is basically a modern version of Usenet. My take is a ton of Americans don’t like to read so they don’t even bother with Reddit. I find the more a person is a reader the more likely they are on Reddit. Im 70 just retired. NOBODY except 1 other guy where I worked out of 20 looked at reddit. Ages 25 to 65. But it was an old school business commercial printing so who knows? Almost nonexistent and falling. A lot of people are citing how much traffic reddit gets from the US and comparing that to the US population but not all traffic is regular users id wager most of it is simply people clicking on a related reddit link during a google search or otherwise being redirected to reddit. Thats not to say it isnt popular but its definitely not among Facebook and Instagram. I use it as my time suck on airplanes but don’t know anyone that actively uses it like me. Theres only one person I know that I know uses Reddit and I dont think he uses it regularly. Theres a few I know that might use it starting with two cousins that have a podcast but I dont talk to them often and social media use isnt a common topic of discussion when we do. Its common enough that it gets mentioned in tv shows and movies. Nobody who I know uses it. Most members of my social circle including close relatives and inlaws are very active internet and social network users but they have zero interest in something like Reddit or anything similar to it. They dont understand how I or anyone normal could possibly enjoy this type of site. The big issue for them is Reddits anonymity. They are really turned off by the idea of posting comments questions answers and having discussions on the internet with total strangers who dont even have real life profile pictures. They regard it as downright weird and antisocial. My friends and relatives exchange messages engage in group chats react to news events and post images and memes... but only with other friends and relatives who are members of the same group. The group is made up entirely of people who they know IRL. The great majority are close relatives and longtime friends. They see an activity such as posting to a forum such as Reddit as being both risky and as desperate sometimes pitiable attentionseeking. When they acknowledge Reddit it is usually as part of a brief exchange that revolves around the question why are you spending time reading and writing to complete strangers? Dont you have any friends? I never use reddit. using reddit is for nerds and weird people if youre young but everyone knows about it I accidentally stumbled upon my cousins account. I saw a comment that reminded me of him and looked into the post history of the commenter... and it was my cousin. I have 23 cousins. So its common enough that you might stumble upon an account of a close family member but not some common that you frequently do. I’d say most people use it but I would say far fewer people use it”. Most people are aware of it but don’t actively use it. If I bring up something about reddit in real life I don’t get looked at crazy. I’m the only redditor I know though. I live in the US and never used Reddit what is that? I dont know anyone else who uses it. I only know two people who ever used it and said two to my knowledge haven’t used it in over a year Almost nobody I know in real life uses Reddit I have no idea I never talk about it with people. When I first found reddit I thought it was so cool because I could find my niche interests so I would bring it up to people often like dude are you on reddit its so cool and then I was on here a while and Im mortified I said that to anyone...uhg so embarrassing. Ill never ever bring it up again lol. Its not that common because of the circle jerk nature of it. Reddit is a real niche in Brazil I don’t know anyone else who admits to using Reddit. I am a US citizen. Honestly I dont even know what Reddit is. So Id say not common. Almost everyone I know uses Reddit to look at reviews for products. They search for stuff like LG TV Review Reddit. Very few people I know are active on it though mostly the nerdiest ones. I think the vast majority has heard of it. Whether or not people are active on it is a different story. My wife constantly listens to those stupid AITAH podcasts where the hosts just read reddit posts... But she wont use it cause its just for computer nerds. Clearly a lot because this app has is flooded with US politics anymore I don’t know. Lots of closeted” Reddit users. Most of my family uses Reddit including both of my Boomer parents and their close siblings. The only reason my nieces don’t use it is because they’re not even 6 or 2 yet respectively. My cousins use it of course a lot of my friends use it but it’s VERY common in my family and our social circles. Im a NPR library book nerd lady on the late side of my 60s. I dont know anyone who uses reddit except my tech nerdy daughter and she doesnt really use it anymore. Common. I am 49 and use Reddit a lot but Ive been online since the early 90s when the internet was only words. My parents didnt really get online until several years later basically when their work started requiring email and internet use so they havent really kept up and they dont use things like Reddit. My dad 73 retired in 2001 and didnt have much internet stuff in his work at that time. He belongs to a couple of specific forums elsewhere and uses google and then some map programs. My mom 69 used internet at a lot in her job and only retired 5 years ago and shes more active on social media you tube and a few other things. But she doesnt use Reddit or any other social media. She belongs to a few websites of interest and has subscriptions to them mostly self help stuff. My kids are 28 22 and 16 and all grew up with the internet so its part of their lives and they all use Reddit to some degree. I feel like most people under the age of say 40 would at least know what it is. Other people have mentioned this as well but it’s very common for it to pop up in the results on google searches. However I doubt most of the people who click on those search results are actually making accounts and becoming active users. According to my wife it’s all I do. Its the Front Page of the Internet! Very few people I know irl actually use Reddit. Many of them dont even know what it is. So much that everyone assumes youre American until proven otherwise. Well my grandma thought Reddit was Redfin a real estate company so… I would say that everyone knows of it and most people at least use it passively occasionally if only to look up information. But no one would ever publicly admit to posting or commenting there. i met one other person who used reddit when i was in high school. i don’t even know anyone personally who uses reddit. i only use it now because its the only way i can talk to my coworkers if i want to talk to them Most people know what it is. I never used it till about a year ago. Its primarily far leftists who have zero tolerance for any other views. Other than that its ok. Extremely common in my social circle Im almost 40 and most of the people Ive encountered here are 25 and under. I found reddit because google kept answering my searches with posts from here. I dont think people talk about it or reference it the way they do instagram Facebook TikTok or Youtube. Im the only person I know who reads posts here and I only joined post covid. I’d say most people I’ve talked to know what Reddit is but they think I’m weird for using it. I tell them I get good info on various topics from Reddit all the time. Even Fidelity Investments has an official subreddit presence — see how awesome we are? 😎 that’s a major financial institution. When I was in law school it seemed like everyone was at least reading it and knew what was going in the law school sub and especially the bar exam sub during that time after graduation. My non law school friends including one who works in tech and is pretty educated were surprised that there was a bar exam sub. That’s the sample size I’ve got for you. I think most including myself started using it for the lawshooladmission and LSAT sub. I don’t know who still uses it or which subs etc. I don’t try to doxx people. It’s the same from my experience. It’s not very common here. I only come here to laugh at the kids… I think Reddit use is more prevalent than it would appear but that’s because people try to hide their Reddit use. When I’m bored and scrolling on my phone I actively go out of my way to avoid using Reddit if someone can see my screen lol Reddit is the sort of platform a LOT of people especially men but many women too use and rarely/never talk about it IRL. Reddit has something like 50 million daily active users in the US. Thats like a 7th of the population. Tbh a significant portion of traffic is definitely bots but its still a lot of people. It’s not common at all really. It’s a pretty niche thing used by people mostly between 3040 who enjoy it either for pr0n or for silly hypotheticals it’s no where near as popular as say Facebook/Insta/Twitter. Ive seen numbers between 120 million to 200 million and Americans make up about 45 to 50% of Reddit users. Given that the population of America is around 340 million Id say its pretty common even accounting for users with multiple accounts and bots that may be flagged as Americans. Its certainly more common than these comments with anecdotal evidence are suggesting. Post 90 My fellow Americans do you think senior citizens should be retested for their drivers license at a certain age? Ive always found it kind of insane that we have people pass a driving test once and they never have to take it again. To be clear I dont think anyone should be forced to retake their driving exam until at least age 6065. I ask this because there have been multiple times in my life where am older person was shown after the investigation that they crashed and *killed* someone as a result due to slow reaction time or poor vision. I just find it wild that someone who got their drivers license in 1950 for example can still drive today with little reassurance theyre up to the task still. I know something like this would be up to the state level though. And also this post may upset some but thats not the intention I had this conversation with my mom the other day. She’s 70 totally still a great driver. My dad is 71 absolutely unsafe. The powers that be will never do anything about it because this has been discussed for decades and seniors would riot but there’s a lot of people out there who are incapable of driving safely at a certain point and it takes so much to get them off the road. I think retesting at reasonable intervals is smarter but unlikely. My grandpa was having issues driving. He dispatched more than a few mailboxes and then caused a relatively minor crash. He ended up with a brain bleed from the accident and required brain surgery. He was required to retest. His doctor asked the DMV to fail him medically. My dad asked them to fail him and promised to drive him to any and all appointments. The DMV gave him his license back. I think everyone should be retested every 5 years or so. Its more important for elderly folks but its easier to convince grandpa to take his test if hes been doing it his whole life. I’m pretty sure if they are seeing a doctor regularly the doctor can make that decision too Citizens over say 70 should get steep discounts on air train and bus fares. Plus free bus rides in metropolitan transit Everyone should have to get retested periodically. Especially if they live in Baltimore and drive either a luxury brand” vehicle or a Hyundai Elantra with any sort of body damage. I’ve never come so close to getting in accidents as I did there. Old drivers are rarely the problem except that they piss off the real problem with their slow driving ways and that is and will always be young drivers. I’ve survived a couple cataclysmic wrecks and a couple bonehead parked car wrecks caused by young drivers who disregarding traffic laws and basic fundamentals of physics haven’t had any such issues whatever with elderly drivers. Believe me I hate being stuck behind one on a one lane road too but it’s nothing really. As far as your concern over road tests here in North Carolina you only have to take a road test if you have a number of citations medical issues or a first time driver. And a factor of that is logistical. You think the lines at DMV are long now? Wait til every second or third person in line has to have a road test instead of three or four a day. 1619. This is where most accidents and most fatalities happen. If you are really concerned about fatalities then it should be much more difficult to get a full license. If we could do Drivers Ed and driver check ins every few months like provisional licenses up until a person turns 21 or a license is only good for 12 months or something. The truth is the second most amount of accidents is drivers 2534 Good luck getting to that though. Only then do you get to Drivers over 65 as a demographic concern. 1 It should be easier to take the keys form Mom when she isnt safe on the road anymore. But the stats dont lie the bigger danger on the road to you and your love ones is drivers 1625 &amp no one makes threads like these concerning them I think everyone should have to be retested every few years. As a group one I belong to older drivers up to about 80 are relatively safe drivers. Its young people men especially who cause the most accidents. Over 65s tend to have higher fatality rates because theyre old and tend to not survive crashes as well as younger people. But younger people cause far more accidents. Increased driver tests of old people isnt going to help unless the tests are strict. Im all for strict testing but for everyone. 60 is not old... While seniors are bad drivers it’s still the 1620 year olds that are worse. I’m sure there is data to back it up. Maybe getting a drivers license should be harder? I’m getting up there in years. What I do notice is that the assholes screaming by on motorcycles or in modified Subarus and Hondas aren’t my age. Don’t see many 50+ guys doing over 100 I think that sounds like a problem in search of a solution. Are there really THAT many times that really comes up and that all the inconvenience and hardship this will cause is worth fixing that problem? I mean my state implemented making people get their eyes retested they get their license renewed and that was hugely controversial. Also its not exactly like the driving test is hard. When I took mine back in 1994 it was simply pulling out of the parking space behind the courthouse going on a slow drive around the small town I lived in parallel parking on a side street then driving back to the courthouse. Its not exactly a huge test of splitsecond reaction time. In general? No. If they get X number of minor moving violations or Y number of major ones? Yes. Teen drivers have the highest risk so I dont think the data supports it I know theres issues with old people being on the road when they shouldnt be but a not insignificant part of that is because they still have to take care of themselves. The support system for old people sucks ass. Assisted living is ludicrously expensive and the vast majority of people dont have access to public transit. This would just add to those existing problems and its not even the largest problem demographic when it comes to traffic fatalities There are plenty of 20 and 30 year old drivers that could use a reevaluation of their driving abilities and understanding of traffic laws too. What youre suggesting is pretty blatant age discrimination. But if you wanted to make EVERYONE retake the test at regular intervals I would be totally on board Let’s turn this around. If we are going to gatekeep driving let’s focus on the population that is most reckless. Maybe we should make young men wait until the age of 26 — or marriage — to obtain a license. Statistically young single men from 16 to 26 are the biggest offenders and causes the most deaths wrecks and injuries. To focus on seniors while completely ignoring our most problematic population group is absolutely ageism. To retest everyone every 5 years or after any major citation would be fair and equitable. Yes. Lets check those stats and see where the bulk of the incidents occur. Hint it is 16 24 We should probably raise the driving age. It has merit but would be extremely difficult to implement with out running afoul of age discrimination laws or electoral issues because of the higher rates older Americans vote at. Honestly I think that you should at least have to retake the knowledge exam every time you renew your license. There are so many people out there who shouldnt be on the road and yet they are No I do not think age should be a reason for a retest. If you get several tickets in an 18 months you should have to retake the road test. I think EVERYBODY should have to take a driving test every few years. I dont give a shit if youre 20 or 120 you should be able to pass a driving test if you want to drive. I don’t think it should age related. It should be length if time related. Personally I think you should have to retake the test every ten years. Laws and driving regulations change and frankly you are driving a two ton weapon and most people do it badly to begin with. I could see an argument that it should be a longer time period. But not age related. A doctor or family can already report someone who is no longer competant to drive and frankly that can happen anytime. I find a lot more problems with younger drivers younger as in younger than old” people being idiots. Yes also new drivers should be tested again. Most accidents are drivers ages 16 24. Retesting is missing the point. We should actually be testing in the US to start. We dont. I dont care what state youre in nowhere in America do we actually vet drivers properly. Every 10 years. Eyes checked and drivers test. Yes!! my father should not be driving and the Drs told him if he could pass the test he could keep it. SOB passed it then got into another accident. Hes 84 and in decent health but hes not all there sometimes. He just hit a good period during that test. The insurance Co told him one more and hes dropped. My uncle did the right thing he got into an accident because he passed out at a stop light but hit the gas and hit someone. He said nope i could have killed someone. He gave it up willingly. Age is not the only thing that could make someone unable to drive safely. You would need to retest everyone. Yes and it should be legal everywhere to build enough mixed use density that they don’t have to worry about driving to get basic needs met. No. Retest everyone or dont. The only problem with this is that it would vary state by state because states create driving laws. So you could have Billy Smith whos 75 and not eligible to drive in Indiana cheat the system and move to Michigan where the age limit is 85. Alot of loopholes. i had an uncle renew his license at 95. he didn’t even wear glasses As a boomer 70m … definitely. But there also needs to be a better system of limited license. My hospital which I have to visit at least monthly is an hour’s drive away and there is no alternative public transport. Well there sort of is but I would have to drive to catch a train to go to the major city and then another train from there to the hospital that’s five hours all up and then the reverse home After reading a selection of which state’s/city’s driver should be tested ASAP I realized I must be the only person on the planet who loves to drive in Manhattan. It’s like one of those tile puzzles. Course I learned to drive in Houston during the boom times in the 70s. Also like a tile puzzle only at 80 mph. I dont think seniors are as large of a problem on the roads these days. In Texas we have a massive police do not enforce traffic laws problem and Im so close to being in favor of red light cams / cell phone cams / whatever that im almost welcoming a nanny state [disgusting]. Wait. This isnt a thing in all states? In Nebraska anyone 72 and older must get an inperson eye exam and take the written and driving exam. The DMV workers may choose to waive the written and driving tests if they think they are unnecessary. Illinois literally does this drivers 79 or older have to renew every two years in person including a road test. https//www.ilsos.gov/services/services_for_seniors/programs.html It’s still teenagers and young adults that have the most accidents. Some of the statistics out there I’ve seen show that drivers in their 60s have the least amount of accidents. No. I commend the reluctance to engage in age discrimination. Perhaps they should retest from time to time in general. Everyone in this comment thread apparently has never been to a dmv. You gotta wait hours just to show documents and give them money and now you want an influx of people to do a time consuming test? Sheeesh Insurance companies are the best place for answers they know the stats. Their industry relys on it. 5069 yr old are the safest divers with the last number of accidents per mile driven in addition to driving fewer miles. There are reasons young males pay the highest rates. At 75 theyre definitely headed up they approach the accident rate of 25 yr olds. This is off the net **Young drivers particularly those aged 1624 are statistically more likely to be involved in car accidents. This is due to factors like inexperience risky driving behaviors and distractions. Drivers aged 65 and older also have a lower accident rate compared to younger and middleaged drivers.** If driving tests were to be imposed on an age group it would make more sense to test drivers between the ages of 16 and 24 since they are the most likely to get into accidents. Regardless I personally think *all* drivers should be required to retest every five or ten years because we all have a tendency to forget or let slide certain driving practices. Raise your hand if you know what speed is acceptable in an intersection without stop signs. Bet you had to look it up! I must add that threads like this are always specifically ageist. People read about someone who drives into a house at age 95 and conclude that all seniors are a menace but when its kids who dont know how to drive well that hardly even makes the news because theyre young and its not newsworthy because its more common. So it seems like its okay if youre young but its bad if youre old. That is specifically ageist. Id like to add that almost every person Ive personally known who was killed in a car accident was under 25. My brother and his wife age 23. My high school friends younger brother and the four other people in the car 17. The girl in the dance troupe who had just gotten her license 20. The two exceptions a friend who was killed by a drunk driver at 35 and a colleague who got her CDL immediately took a job hauling fuel and flipped and burned to death in her rig within two weeks of graduating. She was 37. How do I know this stuff? I used to be a driver and a driving instructor for truck drivers. My Dad never had to take any kind of test at all when he started driving at age 18 in 1936. Kept his license until he passed away at age 89 without ever having taken a driving test. No accidents ever. I’ve been in two wrecks both times I was rear ended by a teenager at a red light. Why peopel over 60? There are all kinds of obstacles everyday where someone is killed simply because someone else can’t drive worth a shit. This seems like a way to add more areas to the elderly by getting them to take a test that most people probably wouldn’t pass. I’m going with no. Maybe a health and eye examination or in my state they could rerequire vehicle inspections. Generally when people fail driving tests in this country it’s not anything to do with their ability to drive safely. Or notoriously examiners not liking some young person’s attitude or appearance. If an older person harms someone else it’s probably due to a heart attack or stroke that a drivers test wouldn’t catch. Typically older drivers are safer than younger drivers because they are more experienced more cautious have better maintenance on their vehicles and notoriously drive slower. If anyone needs more testing it’s the younger drivers that cause more accidents. Given the way I see many younger people drive I think *everyone* should be retested every ten years. If they get a ticket for hazardous driving like 15 over the speed limit or are found to have caused an accident mandatory retraining and testing. I see more accident reports where the driver is under the age of 20 than I do for drivers over 60. But dang one old person has an accident and right away its screaming and yelling. What about all the teenagers out there causing even more accidents? As far as bad drivers go statistically speaking old timers are the least of our worries. This is far from my biggest concern right now. Based on what I’ve seen in this town everyone needs to be tested. Chronic RED light runners are everywhere. Not just oops that was a short yellow light but I’m not stopping get out of my way. I dont think its fair to harp on CSs driving when over 80% of new student drivers according to their stickers shouldnt even be on the road. At this point EVERYONE should have to take a driving test every other license renewal. 🤔 They can and are. In many states you can anonymously report drivers to the Secretary of State and they’ll be notified by mail that they need to be retested Yes. I have a 75 year old parent who should not be driving but will continue to do so until someone tells them they can’t. 60 is a tad early but 7075 for sure. At least a cognitive and reaction time test. Yeah. My grandma backed up into our neighbors mailbox. She didnt even notice it had happened. We made her relinquish her license to the DMV. She got diagnosed with dementia like a year later. no everyone should be retested from time to time we all develop bad habits Yes. See my mom is in her 70’s takes great care of herself not a soul believes her when she says she’s in her 70’s seriously she looks 15 years younger and is a school bus driver. Her driving is impeccable. Now my dad…yeah. Never takes care of himself I can write whole damn books on this also in his 70’s I barely trust him driving a lawn mower. We are about to sell his truck and we keep all car keys hidden after he stole my truck right after complaining his feet were fucking numb. Go to Dr? ohhh everything is fine nothing wrong I feel great! His license is up for renewal this year and I’m really thinking about making the DMV ahead of time to put a stop to that. He’s also had a stroke gets confused and angry easily and generally isn’t a fun person to be around at all but 10000000% needs a retest just to keep himself off the road and everyone safe. Why did I put my mom in there? Because she has to pass training every year to keep her bus driving license and she fully agrees that retesting is a great idea. Post 91 Is there a difference between films produced in Hollywood and those produced in another film industry? Im not sure about this just hearing that Hollywood makes films for the world not necessarily the US and I was wondering if there is any difference between Hollywood films and films that are made for the US population. I think film production costs are too high for the American film industry to make many movies expressly for an entirely nonUS audience. It would almost certainly be cheaper to produce the film in the target market. Can you name any Hollywood films that were made primarily for a foreign audience and not a US audience? Hollywood” is a metonym for the American film industry. There is no other” parallel U.S. film industry. I think all films made in america whether or not they are made in hollywood are made with the hope that there will be world distribution if possible. Its not that they are making them for america on purpose its just more difficult for them to get world distribution. Big studios have the big money and the big networking to get movies around the world and smaller film studios have a harder time with that due to common sense. But also all movies made here would target america first seems silly to throw away their biggest audience. I dont know specifically made for American audiences thats probably just Hollywood. But the British film industry makes a lot of excellent movies that would be entertaining throughout the Anglophone world not just super local British topics. The French film industry is also great if you dont mind subtitles or speak French. And then theres Bollywood...holy hell those are some wild films. Hollywood is basically a catchall for the US film industry in terms of movies that actually end up in theaters. It accounts for only about 10% of films made worldwide but almost 70% of the box office earnings due to high spending on the film itself and marketing. But there are a lot of independent film makers too. My cousin is a film maker and has made a few features that have done well in our regional/state film festivals. But expanding beyond that never mind globally is massively expensive. Until recently China was the largest or second largest market for US adventure movies. China recently cut their international movie quota during the trade war so there may not be as much international income this year. Chinese producers sometimes contribute money and resources to US films. This sometimes resulted in the token Chinese character speaking Mandarin e.g. Independence Day II. But I dont see that so much anymore. The reverse Chinese movie with token US actor has happened too like the Chinese monster movie Great Wall with Matt Damon and William Dafoe. Nearly all of the films Hollywood produces are made primarily for an American audience. The fact that people from other countries seem to enjoy them is largely a fortunate coincidence and testament to our cultural domination. In recent years Hollywood has been paying more attention to China and so its more common to see ethnically Chinese or even Chinese nationals in films these days. But thats usually as far as it goes. One cool exception is that when the new Star Wars movies released in China they had a lot of explanatory text fading in and out to identify characters or explain references to important events since this was the first time the Chinese audience was seeing it in theaters. not that i can tell American movies that have world wide disasters only happen in america. Pretty much any film made for the US population is likely made in Hollywood or at least produced through companies based in Hollywood but not necessarily filmed in Los Angeles. That said the modern trend for bigbudget blockbusters is to appeal to as global an audience as possible with an increasingly significant focus on China. You see this most flagrantly at work in huge action films like the Transformers series. Theres a reason Chinese actors and products have been showing up in those movies in recent years. There are indie films produced and distributed outside the majorstudio system niche film markets say... the Christian Film market pure documentaries or like Hallmark movies and so on. And there are a *few* notable filmmakers making personal passionprojects. But for the most part the point of Hollywood is to make films that will make the most money by appealing to the most people. It used to be that wed have more midtier movies not that expensive to make normal sets in regular places no special effects etc with a few blockbusters making a lot of money that could be used to fund other productions and the odd prestige film. Now its more like as many blockbusters as possible and midtier movies tend to go to streaming first. Thats where the international market comes in when the point is make as much money as humanly possible and so appeal to the broadest audience this means for instance taking into consideration whether it will pass muster with the Chinese government for export to them or not be too local to appeal to other foreign markets. I dont know if many countries make films for a national audience more for a particular language audience. Brazil for example makes films for a Portuguese speaking audience hoping for wider distribution but technically made for Portuguese speakers. Besides some straight up American audience films end up being popular elsewhere. Like Tarantino movies like pulp fiction have a bunch of specific cultural references yet still broke out globally. Id say the most American audience films are actually the movies that are made about other countries. A bunch of American actors faking accents or romanticized versions of foreign countries like Princess Diaries or Red Dawn. Hollywood is just a synonym for any professionally made movie irregardless of if it was made in Hollywood or not. Hollywood is the only major US film industry. There are small independent films but they rarely have major success in or out of the US. Hollywood does try to make movies that can be exported to other countries though if thats what you meant. That way they can make more money from the same film. You can sometimes tell that a studio is intentionally trying to increase a movies appeal to viewers in foreign countries. A common tactic is to cast one or two actors who are popular in Asia but are unknown in the US. Or there will be a brief scene thats set on another continent. Isnt it about films made in other parts of USA? Like in Georgia? Post 92 Do derbys exist in american sports? Here in Europe there are some very big and famous derbies between clubs from the same city or the same region. Like Celtic vs Rangers Glasgow Partizan vs Red Star Belgrade Liverpool vs Everton Dortmund vs Schalke Olympiakos vs Panathinaikos Roma vs Lazio etc. In Latin America we have Boca Juniors vs River Plate among many others. These games are usually considered highrisk with a lot of police involved because the fanbases are intense rivals. Does the US sport also have these derbies? Rivalry games? Yeah. In fact MLB just had a Rivalry Weekend” with teams playing either their incity rivals or those from a nearby city ex Yankees vs. Mets Angels vs. Dodgers etc.. A derby is a stakes race for 3 year old horses where I come from. Yeah we just call em rivalries tho. Not as relevant in pro sports cause most cities only have one pro team for each sport. College however a lot of instate rivalries or neighboring state rivalries. The Saturday after Thanksgiving is always Rivalry Week” in college football. Matchups like Alabama v Auburn Ohio State v Michigan Florida v Florida State etc. Some of the rivalry games have fun names too Alabama v Auburn is the Iron Bowl” Florida v Georgia is the cocktail party” Texas v Oklahoma is the Red River Rivalryused to be shootout instead of rivalry but they moved away from that cause the pew pews is an issue” Pitt v West Virginia is The Backyard Brawl” there’s a bunch more. Some of these games also pass a trophy back n forth to whoever wins each year. Also some great rivalries in college basketball. Duke v North Carolina is the biggest and most similar to a traditional derby as those schools are only 8 miles apart. Louisville vs Kentucky is another big one. But yeah most of our rivalries based on proximity are found in college sports. In addition to the other answers many rivalries in America have terrific names. The Egg Bowl Good Clean Old Fashioned Hate Bedlam The $5 Bits of Broken Chair Trophy the Red River Shootout all CFB and Hell is Real and El Tráfico MLS are just a few. We absolutely have big games around rivalries. The big local sports team where I live is University of Kentucky Basketball. . .and their match with crossstate rival University of Louisville is always a big game. We dont call them a Derby though if you say Derby people will usually think of the Kentucky Derby horse race or maybe a Demolition Derby motorsports event. Edit Or a special event in Baseball around hitting as many home runs as possible Absolutely and the most popular one based on T.V ratings is Ohio State v. Michigan which routinely gets 1720 million viewers. However there is much less violence and the police/city isnt going out of their way to prevent the fanbases from clashing. The idea of police escorts for visiting fans is unheard of in the U.S Yes but we are more civilized about it. These men are pathetic small minded and not wellendowed. We call them rivalries and the most heated ones are in college football. MichiganOhio State AuburnAlabama TexasOklahoma IowaIowa State etc. Theyre not high risk because we dont have a sociopathic relationship with sports like these people do. Sports are generally family friendly affairs not an accepted excuse to drink to oblivion and be violent. Stephen Fry refers to this in America as a local derby whatever that means We have a handful but the most heated and consistently important such game is North Carolina vs. Duke in college basketball. The schools have a history of success and their home courts are only about 9 miles apart. Not in the same way. There are only a few examples of cities that have more than one team in the same league but even then they arent always true rivals. There are some local rivalries for example the Eagles and Giants Philadelphia and New Jersey stadiums are under 100 miles apart which by US standards is very close. Still there is little violence and the rivalry has no political or even social class aspects to it its just about sports. US sports generally dont separate home and away fans. College sports often have a section reserved for away fans to buy tickets but there are no physical barriers or anything like that. NFL…Ravens vs Steelers. Absolutely exists. The only rivalry game I know of where the stands are full of a military presence is the annual Army vs Navy football game For soccer/football yes they exist in MLS. LAFC vs LA Galaxy is quite big. New York City FC vs New York Red Bull also happens but it’s less popular I think Yes but not pro really. There are great rivalries in the pros like Celtic v Lakers. Most arent derbys. None really are. College sports is the answer. College athletics are big in the states. Most inter state rivalries are huge and way bigger than the pros. Because of how spread out teams are in the states and the way they are organized in their respective leagues theres very few rivalries in professional sports that would fit the derby description. Theyre a bit more common in college sports but still quite rare. Off the top of my head I can think of USC vs UCLA Duke vs North Carolina Boston College vs Boston University and perhaps CaliforniaUC Berkeley vs Stanford. BYU and Utah are also only about 50 miles80 km apart an hour drive does that count as a derby? Also none of these rivalries will usually get fierce to the point of police intervention being necessary does that discount all of these as derbies? A derby is a horse race a roller skating competition or a gokart race. When NBC started playing ads promoting a Premier League Darby I had to look it up to figure out that the Brits say Derby as Darby a sound instead of the written e We have rivalry games but they dont cause crime and assault to take place. Thats not something you should be proud of. Portland Timbers vs Seattle Sounders vs Vancouver Whitecaps is a trifecta derby or darby” in MLS With only played my summer car” do you mean dirt track racing? I’m sure it exists but definitely not that popular here you will find a demolition derby at any state fair worth its salt though. Theyre called rivalries and yes fans of every sports teams have 23 other teams in particular they typically hate with a little extra spice. Also our universities have some pretty intense rivalries that can often be way more intense than pro teams rivalries People are free to wear any kind of hat they like at a sporting event. In baseball most spectators wear the ballcap style worn by players on the field. In golf most spectators and some players wear a sunvisor which isnt a hat per se but its headgear though ballcaps are pretty common. In hockey skiing curling and football not to be confused with futbol which Americans call soccer most spectators wear skull caps and hooded coats/parkas since its a coldweather sport while football and hockey players and skiers wear protective helmets and curlers generally seem to go bareheaded. Derbies were popular in the 1900s1930s among spectators but were rare for players and they are rarely seen today as they really fell out of style in the US by the end of WW II. most cities do not have multiple sports teams in the same sport and even for the ones that do no. Rivalries exist but not to the extent you see with derbies and especially not because two teams are based in the same city. We have them but they’re nowhere on the level of Latin American or European rivalries. New York Yankees vs. Boston Red Sox in baseball. Chicago Bears vs. Green Bay Packers in football. Alabama vs. Auburn in college football. LAFC vs. LA Galaxy in soccer. Instead of el clásico this match is called el tráfico in honor of the freeway travel required by fans lol Boston Celtics vs. Los Angeles Lakers in basketball. Boston Bruins vs. Montreal Canadiens in hockey. All of those fixtures are incredibly tame though compared to what you’d see in Europe or Latin America though on a derby day. There’s nothing even close to that level of fandom in America. Yep. New York and LA have two teams in every major sport iirc. And there used to be OaklandSan Francisco in baseball before the A’s got moved Rivalry games? Yes. But in the same city not really. Very few cities aka New York and Los Angeles and sometimes San Francisco have 2 pro teams in the same city. Only LA as far as I’m aware has 2 power 5 universities in the same city. Besides basketball and hockey if you have 2 teams in the same city they play in different divisions so they aren’t really rivals. As for high police not really or at least more than usual I’ve never heard the term derby” used in that way. Do you mean in order for it to be considered a derby the teams must be from the same city? In which case we don’t have much of that on the pro level. MetsYankees might be the most intense but hardly high risk”. I’ve found it to be mostly good natured. Colleges have some intense instate rivalries but not necessarily the same city. One that comes to mind is DukeNorth Carolina basketball. They’re only a few miles apart. USCUCLA. StanfordCal. The Philly schools In basketball. But these are generally low stakes. I’ve noticed that American sports tend to be insulated from the broader socioeconomic and political contexts. For example the Old Firm rivalry is linked to sectarianism and El Clasico plays into the Spanish and Catalan divide. There some rivalry games in America like the LA Dodgers and SD giants in baseball that play into geographical rivalries because they’re two California teams. But not to the extent of European sports. We have the same thing but we don’t call it a derby. College sports especially had this. Ohio State bs Michigan is a good example. Only the MLS calls their rivalry games derbies like el traffico both Los Angeles teams or hell is real Cincinnati vs Columbus. Other sports call them rivalry games which can have a lot of fun names and traditions. For example Middle Tennessee State vs Western Kentucky is called 100 miles of hate or the BUTT bowl between Baylor University and Texas Tech. Chicago has the crosstown classic which is cubs vs white socks it’s fun but not violent sports isn’t worth jail time It’s more of a college thing as pro sports typically have very rigid structures and don’t deviate beyond that. Like we have plenty of games sometimes even special events between famously rival teams in the US but it doesn’t tend to be nearly as crazy as a lot of the matches you mentioned. This includes professional teams like Soxs vs Cubs for baseball Michigan vs Ohio state for college sports etc. I’ve been to games for both but they can’t compare to how crazy and violent I’ve seen Ranger and Celtic have been on video. In college because the teams are closer together We dont call them that but there are a lot of sports rivalries. In Baseball Chicago has the Crosstown Classic which is the North Sides Chicago Cubs vs. the South Sides Chicago White Sox. New York has the Subway Series Yankees vs. Mets theres also a lot of team rivalries famously the Boston Red Sox vs. the Yankees because of the curse of the Bambino from when the Red Sox sold Babe Ruth to the Yankees and then went more than 80 years before winning another world series. Theres one in Kentucky. Involves big hats and mint juleps. In baseball there used to be more multiple team cities but even then they were in different leagues and due to the rules of the time they would only play each other in the World Series. The mixing of the leagues during the season is recent” development considering the amount of time baseball has been around. Until the mid 1990’s the only time the New York Yankees and New York Mets could play each other would be for the championship. Same with Cubs and White Sox in Chicago. The only instance of a multiple team city where there two in the same league that I can think of were the New York Giants and Brooklyn Dodgers. They both moved out of nyc for San Francisco and Los Angeles in the mid 50’s. St Louis Boston and Philadelphia are all former two team cities but they were aways opposite leagues. There might be a nitpick on this if considering pre modern 1903 teams and if you consider teams from the Federal League or American Assoc to be major leagues. yeah we have derbies. Association football has stuff like the Hudson Derby NYCFC vs. the Red Bulls at the MLS level and the Rt. 6 Derby RI vs. Hartford this one’s local to me in USL. Other sports just call ‘em rivalries though. Baseball has stuff like the Subway Series Mets vs. Yankees and the CubsWhite Sox rivalry. Gridiron football has weirdness like the Giants vs. the Jets they share the same home stadium. The MLB has an annual home run derby and theres the Kentucky Derby a horserace. Not to the same degree. Only a few cities have 2 pro teams of the same sport. Things are also much more spread out. Your teams big rival might be from the same state neighboring state or even across the country but in the same division. What do you mean by derby? Rivalry games? Yes. They happen all the time. Theres always security at these events but few issues with fights breaking out. Mostly for college teams since pro teams are separated by division rather than by location. Steelers &amp Eagles play in the same state and it can get pretty competitive but not derby worthy. Since a lot of people are mentioning college sports I’ll mention a local professional one. Chicago has 2 Major League Baseball teams the Cubs and the White Sox. There is a usually friendly rivalry between the two. The Cubs are on the north side and the Sox are on the south side. So there is some neighborhood pride in each team depending on where you live/grew up. They do the Crosstown Classic” each season. It’s a fairly big deal around the city. Again it’s mostly friendly but it is a pretty big tradition There are rival teams but no one is getting killed over it for the most part. Because the only sport with something called a derby I know of in The U.S. is The Kentucky Derby I googled soccer derby. It defined a derby as a match between two revials who are close geography. If thats what it means yes yes we have those particularly in college football. In Oregon The University of Oregon Ducks play the Oregon State University Beavers once a year. The teams are about a thirty minute drive apart. The game is locally referred to as The Civil War and on game day it involves teasing among friends coworkers and relatives many cars decked out in teams colors and signs a lot of honking on I5 the interstate highway leading to the game people dressed in team stuff more cheering booing and chants then at other games pre and post game parties a lot of alumni attendance and general rowdiness. Its noticeable whether you attend the game or not. But violence among fans is pretty uncommon. There has been a game like it everywhere Ive lived. But they are called different things and some dont have a name except team x versus team y. There are rivalry games in the USA as many people have mentioned. What I think they’re overlooking is that as the US professional sports league’s grew it became uncommon to have two teams in the same city that played each other regularly because they were often in separate leagues or separate partitions of an existing league. Much of this can be traced to the desire for professional leagues and professional team owners to have an exclusive in their metropolitan area which tended to be encroached only when the other team was actually in a competing organization. Many of these organizations did merge later but the play schedule was often kept quite separate. Major metropolitan areas with multiple teams often found one of the owners desiring to move to a different area with less direct competition. Philadelphia had to baseball teams until the 1950s. The Brooklyn Dodgers moved to Los Angeles in the 1950s as well. Where cities do you have more than one team they often exist in separate sub organizations within the top league. Although there has been some rebalancing and most leagues you have some strange groupings that are due to the timing of the expansions or to the movement of teams from one city to another. This makes even the theoretically geographic grouping cover larger ground than you would expect. Rivalries are usually based on teams that were in the same subdivision. These teams would play each other fairly often and the regular season. They would often have appreciable influence on the success of the other team because they might be competing directly for a playoff spot. But geographically these rivalries could be quite distant and almost never in the same city. For example in the NFL the New York City Giants are in the NFL East and they will play one home and one away game against the other teams and that division. This has created longterm rivalries with the teams in Philadelphia Dallas and Washington DC. But the NYC Giants and NYC Jets are an entirely different conferences. These two conferences were originally separate competing leagues. Even after the league merged into the NFL it was very uncommon for teams in the two conferences” to play each other. The NFL has added more of those games but it’s still rare compared to a game in the same division which is a subset of a conference. For much of its history the major league baseball teams of the American League and the National League tended to meet only in the World Series championship. The closest would have been the 49ers and the Raiders when the Raiders were still based in Oakland. The teams used to schedule preseason exhibition games before the regular season would start since they played in the same area but violence in the stands led to the teams mutually agreeing to end those games. Those pre season games were usually cheaper than the regular season games and they attracted gang members that in that region identified with those two teams colors Ohio state vs Michigan. Clemson vs South Carolina. College American football is notorious for rivalries. A lot of them have special names and some have special trophies. They usually aren’t violent though. The only derbys I know of here in the US are horse races. My home state of Kentucky has a derby you may have heard of. The US has major sports rivalries but they tend to be *inter*city rivalries instead of samecity derbies as you would call them. This is for a number of reasons 1 There is rarely more than one major team per sport in a particular city. Chicago has two baseball teams. LA has two baseball two hockey two football and two basketball teams. And New York has two baseball two basketball two football and three hockey teams. Other than those three cities no one else has more than one team per sport. 2 Even when a city has multiple teams in a sport they are often separated into different leagues/conferences/divisions etc so they dont play each other all that often. For example The Chicago White Sox and Chicago Cubs never played each other between 1906 and 1997. They are in different leagues so until interleague play started they just never played each other. Even today we have interleague games so they still play each other on occasion but neither is truly the main rival of the other. The Cubs main rivals are the St. Louis Cardinals and the White Sox main rivals are the Detroit Tigers. Because of this rivalries tend to be city vs city rivalries not intracity derbies. For example here are some of the big rivalries in each sport **Baseball** New York Yankees vs Boston Red Sox Chicago Cubs vs St Louis Cardinals Los Angeles Dodgers vs. San Francisco Giants though this rivalry started when both teams played in New York prior to moving to the west coast. **Football** Green Bay Packers vs. Chicago Bears Kansas City Chiefs vs. Oakland/LA/Las Vegas Raiders New York Giants vs Philadelphia Eagles **Basketball** Boston Celtics vs Los Angeles Lakers New York Knicks vs Indiana Pacers **Hockey** Montreal Canadiens vs. Toronto Maple Leafs Montreal Canadiens vs. Boston Bruins Chicago Blackhawks vs. Detroit Red Wings That isnt an exhaustive list just a few notable examples in each sport. There are a *few* exceptions to that notably in New York since its the one city with the most professional teams. In baseball the Mets and the Yankees Subway Series is pretty intense though neither team would consider the other their main rival. In basketball The New York Knicks and Brooklyn Nets have a decent rivalry though the Knicks are the *far* bigger team in New York. Finally but certainly not least the three New York area hockey teams also share a pretty intense rivalry especially the RangersIslanders and RangersDevils. Its truly the only example I can think of where a each teams main rival is in the same city. Heated rivalries in the same city isnt as much of a thing because in the history of American sports a city usually has two teams because historically they were in separate leagues that merged. Like sure the Subway Series is a bit of a thing between the Yankees and the Mets but as American League and National League teams they had never even played against each other until 1997 This is true to a lesser extent in american football where the Giants and Jets come from the NFL and AFL and therefore ended up in opposite conferences and only play each other once every four years unless they end up against one another in the Super Bowl Because of this phenomenon a teams biggest rival is usually from a state or two over and in the same league/conference rather than the team from across town New York Yankees vs Boston Red Sox for example The closest thing to European derbys Id say is college football rivalries. Those are usually from within their state Alabama vs Auburn Kansas vs Kansas State Mississipi State vs Ole Miss or from across the line in the neighboring state Michigan vs Ohio State Oklahoma vs Texas Rivalries in US sports are more media created today vs organic people take their shots on social media vs in the stands. Its not zero but its nothing like pre 1990s. Security is higher and beer is more expensive. The only derby thing Im familiar with are demolition derbies in America. Basically people take junky cars and run em into each other to see who can drive around the longest while incapacitating other cars. As others have said its not really as much of a thing. Most fanbases hate whatever their designated historic rival is and whichever teams have beaten their team recently but they dont hate their nearest team extra hard. Theyre more like cousins than sworn enemies. Team divides tend to be more regional rather than basically being a proxy for some other large cultural divide i.e. Catholics vs Protestants. So even when its serious its not that serious. If anything crosstown games are considered more exciting but theyre certainly not more dangerous or nasty. Most professional sports leagues also dont actively segregate fans by team sometimes there are sections loosely designated for the visiting team but its not weird or unsafe to be wearing blue in a sea of red as long as youre comfortable cheering when everyone else is disappointed and vice versa. One difference is in the US there are more sports to begin with so individual sports communities are more unified by their love for the sport itself. Like if you were a huge fan of TeamA and moved next door to a huge fan of your rival TeamB you might playfully hate each other but youd likely have them over for a beer to watch the game because youre both a fan of the sport. People identify just as much as football fans as they do NY Jets fans. The US is so spread out that most proximity rivalries are instate or neighboring states. Honestly the lower in division and stature the more likely you are to find the equivalent to a derby as you describe it. I cant honestly say they exist in pro sports. There are a lot of these in college sports as has been mentioned. College basketball is more likely to have local/city rivalries as most colleges have a basketball team but not everyone has football. UNCDuke is the best rivalry in college basketball and the two schools arge less than 10 miles apart. Im in Cincinnati and the annual rivalry game between the two local schools Cincinnati and Xavier is a huge deal. Another intense one in my state is Akron and Kent State two programs that are lower in status than the above two but they are in the same municipal region same conference and they play twice a year one game in each schools gym. Always a sellout and extra energy in the building. I would think that high school sports have the closest match to a European derby at least in spirit. My local high school has three rivals that are each within a ten minute drive. High school football stadiums usually have a home side and a visitor side but anyone can go wherever they want. High school sports are cheap too so really as long as youre in a densely populated area a game can have a balanced mix between the two fan bases. Ive seen far incidents between fans at high school sports than I have seen at college and pro sports. You say here in Europe and also say we in Latin America. Which one is it? Eu or South America? Derby = Rivalry? 🤷 Yeah. We have those. Everyone else seems to be missing the cross town aspect of your question. The most famous one inin professional sports historically is probably the old Subway Series between the New York Yankees and Brooklyn Dodgers and now the more recent version between New York Yankees and New York Mets. Other crosstown rivalries have been the Crosstown Classics between the Chicago White Sox vs. Chicago Cubs the Freeway Series between the Los Angeles Angels vs. Los Angeles Dodgers. This is a TON of these in college football with tons of longstanding cross town and regional rivalries where the game often have colorful names and their own trophies. Too many to mention but the Iron Bowl between University of Alabama and Auburn University is probably one of the most well known. So our equivalent would be crosstown classic” of White Sox v Cubs or subway series” of Yankees v Mets in MLB. Both of these matchups are relatively recent tho. In both cities one team is American League and the other is National League. Until 1997 AL and NL teams only ever met in the World Series. I feel like there is extra security on the L during the crosstown series but nothing ever that serious happens Why do you guys pronounce it like darby not derby A little bit the San Francisco 49ers and the Oakland Raiders were about 40 miles away from each other’s stadiums so the two teams were always very much rivals for control over the Bay Area”. raiders fans are like 80% convicts so to no ones surprise there was a stabbing in the bathroom during one of their last games over the Bay Area the Raiders moved to Vegas and abandoned their fans Yes in some pro sports leagues that have teams in big cities like NYC or LA have multiple teams. But they don’t always play every season like they might in PL. so yes but it’s not as institutional at the pro level. I know for college football when the sport was smaller and more regional there were rivalries that formed between schools that stay to the day. So a team might play in a different conference or something these days but the schools will still play regardless. You won’t find the European Derby atmosphere in US sports. Although there are lots of heated rivalries in all leagues pro and college none to the extent of where police escorts or fan separation is warranted. In fact you can be a rival supporter wearing your kit and still walk up to the stadium box office and buy a ticket anywhere in the stadium or simply ticketmaster app for that match/game if it’s not sold out. Americans don’t have the same passion and intensity as Europeans do to their local teams. We see it as just a game/match. Even if it’s a huge rivalry it won’t be talked about past the sports section in the local newspaper unlike in Spain where El Clasico take up front page of every newspaper in Madrid and Barcelona. The results MIGHT be on the front page but not the prematch coverage. Sure fans will show up and talk shit to the other teams but when the game/match is over it’s over. The very few that take things very serious and see the game/match as anything more than a game/match will be viewed as there’s something wrong with him” by other fans in the stadium or bar/pub. While we do have some high risk” matches/games Eagles vs Raiders or OK vs OK St where extra police patrols might be needed but you won’t see full riot gear cops or dry zones leading to the stadium. If you see fighting in the stands chances are alcohol is involved. Unlike in Europe you can drink alcohol in the stands while watching a match. Aside from club teams it’ll be the USA vs Mexico soccer match that’s really intense. Again not to the extent of Europe though. While I’ve never attended such a match yet there is again no separation of supporters no police escorts and alcohol served throughout the entirety of the match biggest problem. Last video I saw from a USA vs Mexico match there were fights in the stands but it was Mexico supporters fighting each other. I will speak for my hometown Boston Baseball Boston Red Sox v. NY Yankees Hockey Boston Bruins v. Montreal Canadians not as fierce as it used to be. Basketball Boston Celtics v. LA Lakers American Football New England Patriots v. NY Jets Soccer/Association Football New England Revs v. I dont know???? We have rivalries but we dont have the history of fan violence that the soccer ⚽/football community does. Here is Steven Frys visit to the University of Auburn Auburn Alabama hosting the University of Alabama in 🏈 football. https//youtu.be/FuPeGPwGKe8?feature=shared Must watch the to very end to get the whole effect. Edit FYI JordanHaire Stadium in Auburn has a capacity of 87k So in the US college and university are synonymous and interchangeable with each other. College football has the closest thing to derbies or at least did/ will have had before the television money ruined the sport. So basically outside of baseball university sports predate professional sports in the US. College football and to a lesser extent college basketball are the most important and the ones that make enough revenue to basically pay for the other sports in athletic department. So it has always been a business but the rules were based on amateurism until recent court rulings allowed the student players to earn money off their image licensing. Before those rulings players could not be paid but there were always shady school fundraisers called boosters that would secretly pay student athletes to play for their favorite universities. So teams from one university would play teams from another local university. The universities with larger student enrollment basically formed conferences to compete with one another and the mid sized universities and smaller universities did the same. It was basically large regional land grant universities playing nearby land grant universities with occasional large private which usually meant religious about a century ago but they mostly became secular over time universities as well. Players and students from the various universities grew up and played high school football together or against the players from the other local universities. There was a lot of joking and good natured pranks as a result. Students would steal trophies statues mascots or other symbols of their rival schools. These would become the spoils for the winning team. Some of these trophies have names that reflect the secular/ religious class American Civil War divisions of the local community. Some games are still called the Civil War the Border War the Holy War etc. Many of these trophies predate any kind of college championship. So your primary goal would be to beat your rival and then win your conference title if your team was any good. If your team had a crap season you could salvage it by beating your rivalry game opponent and spoiling their chance of a conference title. Eventually the conference champion of the Pacific Conference agreed to play the champion of the Big 10 conference in what was called the Rose Bowl. Then teams wanted to win enough to earn a spot in a postseason bowl game. So again if your rival could beat you in the last game of the season to upset your bowl bid then that would make their season. During the bowl era one loss was often enough to cost you a shot at a bowl game or a shot at a conference or national title. The whole thing was based on playing against the same players who you played with or against in high school. It was all regional. Then the television money kept growing and teams would leave their conference in the hopes of earning more television revenue in a different conference but losing their centuries old rivalries in the process. Several conferences collapsed because they couldn’t stop their members from getting a bigger paycheck elsewhere. The rival games are still around for now but many have disappeared with conference realignment. OP this is unrelated to what youre actually asking but for some Americans the term derby would imply a roller derby which is sort of like rugby on roller skates thats not quite accurate but it should conjure a close enough image. Its nowhere as popular as the football/basketball/etc but most large cities and many medium cities have teams that play in regional leagues. Tickets are usually cheap and so is the beer. Its a game thats been around for decades and its one of the few sports where womens leagues are the focus. Depending on the context a derby could also refer to a destruction derby a soapbox derby or the Kentucky derby. We have strong sports rivalries like Redsox and Yankees or Bruins vs Canadians. What is a derby? You need to define the term. My only knowledge of that term is a hat. Most people seem to be mentioning American football rivalries but the MLS has some big derby games as well. For example El Traffico Hell is real and the Texas derby. You dont see as many big fights as in Europe but I go to the Timbers vs. Sounders game in Portland every year where they play for the Cascadia Cup and the away fans do have a police escort to the stadium use a separate entrance and sections with security personnel to keep us away from home fans. There was a drunk Portland fan who tried to fight like 20 of us last month for a game when we were marching to the stadium and he was held back by police. It was pretty funny. You may as well be speaking Klingon to me with all that Back when the As were still in Oakland we had Bay Bridge Series between the Giants in San Francisco and the As in Oakland. They once faced off for a world series. That day we had the 1989 Earthquake LOL We got the HELL IS REAL game home in Ohio. Cinci and CBus play. NFL has the Battle of Ohio between the Browns and the Bengals twice a year annually I think college rivalries are a bigger deal than professional rivalries in American sports. Governors Bowl every 4 years Iron Bowl Battle for the Golden Boot Sunflower Showdown Good Texas vs TAMU Duke vs Georgia Tech Do you mean rivalries? Like the Boston Red Sox and New York Yankees? The violence aspect is much fewer and further between but still does rear its head but more niche to certain cities/teams/rivalries. The Linc in Philly has a very bad reputation of being hostile to anyone not in Eagles’ colors DodgersGiants have a century old rivalry and a Giants supported was beaten to near death at Dodgers stadium not isolated but Brian Stow was a huge story Boston is notorious for racist heckles but don’t hear too much about fighting fan to fan etc. Most derbies in Europe/South America result from teams who share a city or in some cases even the same stadiu. However most Major sports in the US don’t have multiple teams in a single city and typically those that do Chicago/NYC in baseball LA/NYC in football are in different divisions/leagues/conferences so their games have minimal standings/playoff implications. So most US rivalries are between teams in different cities vs. local derbies. College sports are the ones that have the most intense rivalries. There’s so much history behind them and the stands are filled with young drunk college students. I’d say in general though there’s more emphasis on sports being family friendly in the US. They’ve put in a shit ton of effort to make it that way hasn’t worked as well for Philadelphia though. Correct me if I’m wrong but it seems to me that fights between football fans in the UK are part of the culture and tradition. Like guys intentionally go out to be hooligans! It just seems so much more macho then what you’d see in a US stadium. Post 93 Favorite American animals that aren’t household names? For reference for what I mean by household names bears all three native to the US moose bison eagles wolves alligators raccoons otters beavers etc. Doesn’t have to be unique to the United States! Just needs to be native or introduced here! Would love to read your favorite animals that aren’t as well known! For example I love California King Snakes! Very elegant markings I’ve always been fascinated by turkey vultures Peregrine Falcon. Fastest dinosaur ever. Dainty death on wings. Blue Herons are a favorite of mine. I especially like to watch them catch fish. Love me a bighorn sheep. Have you ever seen one just strolling on a cliffside? Absolutely wild. I also love prairie dogs. Their communities are huge complex and UNDERGROUND. It’s fun to spot them peeping up from their lil holes 🥹 Chesapeake Retriever Love cardinals and blue jays Im originally from Utah where I never saw them now in Massachusetts the colors still surprise me Ive seen them both together a few times Prairie dogs and marmots. Im fucked up. I actually like seagulls. Skunks they are so cute! My aunt actually had one as a pet as a child lol it was destinked Opossum. I love them so much. And they are our only native marsupial. People think they are ugly they are just misunderstood. Uhh….the fisher? Or is that too household? Roseate spoonbill As kids growing up in Houston we learned about the five cats of Texas —jaguarundi jaguar ocelot bobcat and mountain lion. Manatees 🥹 Roadrunner is a household name but some people think it is only a fake cartoon bird. They are real and much smaller than the cartoon. Skinks are similar to lizards and can have brilliant markings. Hummingbirds Little brown bats. Mosquito eating *machines*. American Pika is super cute Hellbenders used to be found in upstate NY in one of my fishing holes. I believe it’s the United States large amphibian. Timber Rattlesnake for its historical value. It’s the snake that was displayed on the Gadsden Flag and was used to represent the Thirteen Colonies in some cartoons from the era. Shout out the American Woodcock. Should have been our national bird. Love those little goofballs. Pileated woodpecker. I probably spelled it wrong but I don’t care. A woodpecker that is absolutely massive. Gets my vote. Ringtails! They are desert native little cute things. I have seen them in person one time about 12 years ago LA Zoo had a pair they were caring for. Not sure if they are still there or not but they are really cute. It’s the official bird of the most populated state in the country but I feel that there’s not enough love for the California quail. Scurry off to your next meeting tiny winged friends! The whippoorwill. Growing up in the Appalachians their odd little song was a constant feature of summer nights in my childhood. Theyve recently started making a comeback in the area after years of steady decline due to habitat loss. Any nocturnal bird crazy enough to fly through the open windows of a moving vehicle to catch a bug damn the consequences immediately has my affection lol. Coati mundis and javelina! Southern Arizona! Raccoons I know that’s household but I don’t care I love raccoons and always will. I have a couple that come into my garage at night to eat cat food that I put out for them and they are so adorable their little fingers are hilarious they have fingers not paws it’s so cute and they are so fluffy and furry. Marmots are funny as hell Anhingas are cool to watch fairly plentiful if you know where to look but few people know what they are. Manatees. Leisurely giants. The Devils Hole Pupfish. Theyre critically endangered in a really bad way and theyre quite pretty. Also bobcats. I just want to pet their fluffy ears murder mitts be damned. Black capped chickadees. They’re just so fucking cute. Green anole. Pheasants! Especially the ones with like 10 different feather patterns and colors theyre so chaotic Bobcats. I like to watch them while they and I are hunting. Really interesting creatures. Roadrunners are neat Probably too household but turkeys. Not the farm ones wild ones are bastards and I love them for that. They will charge you and your car and just stand in the middle of the road daring you to hit them. Horned lizards aka horny toads. We chased them all the time when I was growing up. They can squirt blood from around their eyes when threatened which is mixed with a chemical that is foul tasting to canine predators. It also has a foul odor. Texas and Oklahoma have them on their endangered species list as fire ants have decimated the native ants that are a favorite of these little guys. If you see one in the wild you are encouraged to report the sighting with details about where and when you saw it. I love watching mantis up close.They are definitely sentient beings. Muskies are cool in a terrifying prehistoric looking sort of way Im lucky enough to live in a suburb that has so many bats! I love bats of basically any kind and they are so fun to watch in my back yard right at dusk. Jack rabbits. I now live in Nevada and had no idea how massive these things were or how fast! Jumping spiders! I’ve owned a few of them. Cute and inquisitive little fellas. Osprey. I love it when they come to nest in the spring. Anoles the little lizards Fisher cats. They’re mean but fascinating. Us Minnesotans really really love our state bird the Common Loon. Legends claim its eyes can shoot lasers. It’s a household name if you’re in Florida but not the rest of the country but the manatee Genuinely all snakes are beautiful. Globally. Its an interest well worth a Google. I really like pika. I like prairie dogs. They get a bad rap but their holes don’t actually break legs of ranch animals and bubonic plague outbreaks are far more likely to hurt their populations than ours. Instead they provide homes for other animals like burrowing owls and they make better grazing pastures for bison and other grazing animals. Also they’re cute. There are so many neat ones. Coyotes are cool. They have been found in every state in the continental US. There are even pictures of them dodging taxis in NYC. The blue heron is such a fun funky dinosaur. There used to be one that hung out on the pond on my way to work. I always considered it a good luck day when I saw them. Wild turkeys are so much smarter than their domesticated counterparts and MEAN! One fought my tires while his friends mobbed a cyclist. All the turkeys and all the people got away safely so it was QUITE funny. Wolverine. The name itself is very well known because of the superhero but I imagine a lot fewer people could describe the animal or have seen one/a picture of one. Ringtail jaguarundi coatimundi gila monster. Sandhill Cranes. There are flocks here right now. They are so elegant and their young are super cute. Many of them arent shy with humans and will come within 20 feet or so to check you out. Amazing! Hellbenders Texas blind salamander! One of three blind salamander species in the whole world! Lives in the Edward’s Aquifer! Bluebirds. I have two pairs nesting in boxes in my yard. And I have another box that tree swallows are checking out. Apparently if you throw feathers in the air they’ll swoop down and catch them and use them to build their nests with. The California condor. I freaking love vultures. Porcupines! Not as flamboyant as their African cousins but so cute and so cactuslike! I once convinced a drunk girl that they were carnivorous and hunted prey by hanging upsidedown and dropping onto of their target impaling them. Geoducks. And theyre not ducks. Armadillos! I have a family that lives in my backyard. Woodcock We have flying squirrels. Snails are my absolute fave! They’re just slime puppies. Hummingbirds! Mountain lions/cougars/catamounts. Im a big fan of the noble Columbian Ground Squirrel except for when its trying to bust into my tent. I could watch prairie dogs all day American Pikas are my absolute favorite animal. They bring me so much joy hearing/seeing them while hiking. We have Roadrunners that come and see us every day in East Texas No love yet for Gila Monsters? Or Gar? American Stoat. Gosh those things are so cute. Basically a ferret. Ermines aka stoat are freaking adorable but very elusive and pretty vicious. Blue ghost fireflies Piping plover chicks are the cutest things on the planet Post 94 Americans Mormon or not who live Utah. Whats the Soda like there? So some months back I learnt that due to the religious restrictions of the Mormons regarding drinks. They used Soda as a subsitute to the point of having invented Dirty Soda. As a guy who loves Soda. I have to ask. Whats it like there with all the Soda Shops and making your own soda. Is it better than Branded Soda like Coke or Pepsi? Soda is a different world here. Worth checking out. I’m a normal pepsi/coke guy though Sugar Utahs drug of choice The cookie donut and ice cream places abound Im not in Utah but we have some of that here in Vegas. There is one place called FiiZ its pretty good. They use regular soda such as Coke Mountain Dew and Dr. Pepper and add various ingredients including coconut cream or different syrups. Its pretty good. A YouTube guy made a Dirty soda uses existing branded soda as a base and adds to it. This includes fruit juices syrups candy and nondairy creamer especially coconut based. It is not a replacement for Coke Sprite etc. Rather it’s an enhancement. Dirty soda is predominately sold at drivethrus that sell only dirty soda and sweets such as cookies and brownies. They do not sell burgers and fries for example. Not having cooking facilities onsite reduces overhead and speeds customer flow. Is this completely new? I’d say not. Adding additional flavors to soda as ordered by the customer actually used to be somewhat common in the United States. E.g. soda fountains could add flavor syrups to branded sodas. When you ordered a cherry Coke it was a Coke with cherry syrup and cherries added to the glass. The soda jerk employee title would make it right there at the bar like a milkshake or cocktail. But the default assumption for decades has been that soda is drunk unadorned. At a restaurant you don’t even get a slice of lemon or lime. And the big soda companies premix flavors to create additional products such as the many flavored Cokes including Cherry Coke Vanilla Coke etc.. In fact there are machines nowadays where you can add syrups. So dirty soda is in part a resumption of the soda jerk tradition of mixing soda cocktails to order adapted to the drivethru and with the innovation of adding creamy elements. Of course it comes at a large increase in price over an unadorned Coke from McDonnalds! Just to emphasize a point adding cream elements to soda was fairly new and is apparently the source of the name dirty soda” because coconut cream and similar elements gave the soda a cloudy or dirty appearance. Why Utah? I would argue it’s a function of three factors. First the LDS Church recently clarified that there is no blanket prohibition on sodas. For decades many Mormons had avoided sodas or at least caffeinated sodas. In let’s say 1980 many Mormons would not have patronized such businesses. Second the prohibition on coffee remains in effect. This means espresso bars like Starbucks are not as lucrative in Utah as elsewhere though you can certainly get good coffee in Utah. Third Utah has an aboveaverage number of children and teenagers in families with cars. This is a prime market for a drivethru selling sweet sodas. I don’t think the Mormon prohibition on alcohol is a big factor. Remember this is a product marketed to drivers and children. Rather it replaces coffeebased drinks and adds value and price to unadorned sodas. Utah also seems to have an aboveaverage number of independent soda bottlers and restaurants serving their own branded sodas typically cream sodas and root beers but this has nothing directly to do with dirty soda. If you want the dirty soda experience at home you can do it. Just buy some syrups juices fruit and creamer to mix into your usual favorite soda. You will save a lot of money compared to what you would pay at a drivethru in Utah. Mormon here but not from Utah. I thought it was over exaggerated but I was surprised. The soda shops are as common as Starbucks is in most of the country. The customizations were insane and I was pleasantly surprised with the taste as I assumed it would be kinda gross. Ive gone to this kind of specialty soda place a couple of times and have never been impressed. It has always struck me as being upcharged for something I could make myself at a particularly nice gas station or with a Coke Freestyle machine which would normally be found in a restaurant where I could get a meal to accompany it and thus actually be worth a stop. I say this as a n inactive Mormon who also likes soda especially root beer and cream soda. According to Google Utah has the lowest percentage of adults with diabetes. I assume the no soda rule for many Utahns is a factor. So let me start with the fact I’m not from Utah. I’ve been there but never lived there. My qualifications on this topic are the sheer amount of exmo ex Mormon content I consume. From my understanding they use it as a way to replace things they can’t have coffee and tea and there’s apparently more soda shops than coffee shops in the areas because most of the population can’t have coffee so those businesses probably don’t do as well. Soda and sweet treats like Crumbl are replacements for the things they can’t have. Im a former Mormon currently living in Utah. I generally drink diet soda and even that rarely. Fullsugar sodas are already a bit too sweet for my taste. So all of the dirty sodas that Ive tried were overwhelmingly too sweet for me. Brigham’s Brew is the secondbest *bottled* root beer I have ever had after Abita which is obviously the worlds best. Its wild. These soda shops can have 30+ cars in line. Ive never really gone to one though. Ill just drink normal soda. What is dirty soda” They keep Dr pepper on tap hidden in a basement. From what I hear they like to drink many different sodas all at one time. Get it? Post 95 What is in your opinion the single most scariest and terrifying place or attraction in the US? Place and attraction can literally be anything you want. Also what is the minimum amount of money you would agree to stay a night there all by yourself with absolutely nothing and with no contact with anyone else? I95 south of Palm Beach in a rental car. I have done many stupid things in my long life but that was the most certain that I have ever been that I was about to die. Waffle Houses after the bars close The interior of Alaska is true wildness. Its not a place most people can survive and you can be 100 miles from anything. Bears and wolves are a persistent danger if illness and parasites dont get you first. I drive by the site of the Zodiac Killer’s first murders several times a month. Gives me chills every time especially when some prankster paints the Zodiac’s identifying crosshair symbol there. I’d like to think I could spend the night there alone but it would be a very long night adx Florence A public psych hospital or Lincoln tunnel at rush hour. The Myrtles Plantation is said to be the most haunted place in Louisiana. You would think it would be the Lalaurie Mansion though considering the stories that came out of there. at night. The top of the KRDKTV mast in North Dakota is the scariest place I can imagine. I wouldnt spend the night there for any amount money. I’ve had more weird things happen to me on the Navajo Reservation around Keyenta than anywhere else. I’d stay the night in a house out there but wouldn’t be stopping the vehicle at night for anything or anyone. Honorable mention to Sand Canyon in Canyons of the Ancients as well as Hovenweep. It would take a few thousand at least to get me to camp in either with all those old Anasazi kivas and ruins. And I tend a historic cemetery in the south on a weekly basis that’s saying a lot. I barely have anything weird happening in there by comparison. The African museum in concord ca owned by Albert Seeno is creepy For me that glass abutment or whatever its called that goes over the Grand Canyon. Fuck. That. Camden NJ near the housing projects and all of the bars in the adjacent area. Took a wrong turn leaving an Iron Maiden concert some years ago and ended up there. Quickly found my way out but so many drug deals and hookers on their stroll. Bishops Castle. Its not scary with supernatural theres no protections from falling. For example you walk up 4 stories and theres a doorway leading to just a drop no door no railings. The whole place is like that. Driving along the Pacific Coast Highway from Leggett south to Mendocino was pretty scary at points. The frequent construction along the way helped in some places by slowing down traffic. I’ve read that the Million Dollar Highway in Colorado is worse. For attractions when we went to the Sears Willis Tower in Chicago one of our friends was too scared to step onto the transparent bumpouts. Whatever the fuck the local county fair is putting on the walmart parking lot. How they haven’t killed hundreds yet is a mystery. Memphis TN Dont know about most haunted but a nearby attraction to me the Waverly Hills Sanatorium was on 5 episodes of Ghost Hunters If you dont know the show its title is self explanatory and was called one of the most haunted hospitals in the eastern USA. House on the Rock. I wouldnt want to spend the night in the Seattle Underground. I’m going with old abandoned mines. I don’t even have claustrophobia nor do I believe in ghosts but I couldn’t bring myself to inside one at night like these YouTubers lol. The second I hear a whisper or see something moving I’m shitting my pants lol. An on/offramp in Pittsburgh particularly any on 28 or 376. Gary Indiana The house of whoever made the Kars for Kids song. One of us would be dead by morning there is no amount of money that would prevent that. The Holocaust Museum It has not been my experience that anyone wishes to pay me to stay at any location. As for the absolutely nothing and with no contact with anyone else part? There is a resort nestled in the hills of West Virginia deep deep in the Radio Exclusion Zone. There is no WiFi there is no internet there is no cell service. Communication in and out of the resort is limited to landline phones. Trust me when I say I have paid a pretty penny to stay there. Disconnecting is a luxury that gets more and more precious. There is another stay opportunity a few miles away that I have not availed myself of but have considered it deeply. They put you in a caboose. The train goes about its daily schedule. At a scheduled secluded point deep deep in the mountains miles from anything else they drop you and the caboose off. They collect you at the end of your stay which is two three or four nights. Its a rather expensive stay option between $8001300 per stay. But it is quite tempting! Penn Station public restroom surprised it isn’t featured as a set piece in more horror films. You can go spelunking cave crawling is some really claustrophobic tight places in America. In Milledgeville GA. Central State Hospital is pretty terrifying. Lots of cool and horrible facts about that place. My hotel in Memphis was terrifying when we visited Graceland. My hotel in Memphis was terrifying when we visited Graceland. When you go on a road trip in the US and you see nothing but empty land for miles and miles. It feels like a murdured corpse is hiding in there somewhere. The 680/580/80 split in Berkeley/Oakland. Good luck getting your car out in one piece and the direction you’re supposed to be going and not on a wrong bridge. Looking over my wifes shoulder as she describes the latest home project. Nutty Putty Cave before 2009. There isn’t enough money in the world north philly especially at night. definitely one of the scariest places in the US The White House under the current occupants. The DMV. Department of Motor Vehicles Gary Indiana. Yes its run down and poor but theres something so unsettling and eerie about that city. Im from the Detroit area and live in Chicago and every time I drive through it I refuse to stop anywhere near Gary. Your moms house. In college in 1981 friends and I camped on the beach. We slept in sleeping bags on the sand. We are SO lucky there wasnt a sneaker wave random HUGE wave The White House and its current inhabitants. 1600 Pennsylvania Ave. NW Washington DC 20500 White House Mammoth Cave. The cta in chicago because you never know what’s going to happen. And if you need to get to work on time leaving the train could mean being late for work. It’s a bad feeling. Doyers Street NYC Abandoned NYC subway tunnel Cisco UT. Something lives there the junk moves around and there is fresh graffiti every time I go through. I dont want to know who or what. There’s that one haunted house” that is just 9 hours of straight up actual torture Edit McKamey Manor Road to Hana at night under a new moon. One lane in many places sheer drop offs and blind curves throoughout drunk tourists. So much fun. The forests in the PNW are beautiful wild majestic. My favorite place in the world. But we also tend to have a lot more serial killers than the rest of the country. I always carry a weapon in case in run into a Gary Ridgway wannabe. Good question. The Alaskan wilderness the Everglades dont touch the trees if you dont like ginormous bugs the bottom of Lake Lanier any mountain lion areas without a firearm and KKK Headquarters. Remote camping on the Suwannee river. Black water swamp canopy of trees heavy traffic of wildlife dense fog abandoned insane asylums and ghost towns Pretty wild place Rosebud Reservation in South Dakota. Abject poverty insane drug abuse and crime. Disney World and Disneyland. The current White House. I havent been there but the Winchester House is it for me Pigeon Forge TN. There is no amount The French Quarter or the Myrtles Plantation both in Louisiana. Not sure its the absolute most. Gatlinburg is more horrifying than terrifying but absolutely Gatlinburg if you ask me. Bariatric surgeons all over the south must be grinning with joy that it exists. The Deep South. Im Bisexual and I wont go there without a loaded Handgun cause of just how awful it is for LGBT people I’m a trans guy so Texas. On my way to New Orleans I passed by a large smokesmoking refinery and I was really scared. I felt like I was in the terminator movie. Downtown Portland at night. Chicago Post 96 Are there state or regionspecific names? For me as a German there are names that are typical for Englishspeaking countries like Jack George or William. Then there are names that sound specifically American to me like Tyler Justin or Tyrone. Are there also names that are more typical in certain states or regions? I came up with this question today when I heard the name Wyatt which seems to be some goto name for a 6070 year old rural guy from the Midwest? Is this a thing or is it pretty much the same everywhere in the U.S.? Double names Debra Sue Bobby Jo etc are/were more common in the southern part of the USA than elsewhere. Utahns are infamous for giving their children absurd names. I met a guy named Bubba Jimenez once and thought to myself that’s the most Texan name I’ve ever heard” There are a few names that drastically increase the odds that someone is from Cajun country in Louisiana. A lot of times if I hear a first and middle name together I assume Southern. Like Jimmy Joe Betty Lou Bobby Lee etc. Ive never met a Beau or Bo who wasnt from the south. Tripp or Trey is usually from the south too. My last name is an anglicized SwissGerman surname. It’s very common in southeastern Pennsylvania. So common that when I was picking up an order at a store in northern North Carolina and the clerk saw my last name she asked me if I was from the town where my dad was born. It turned out that she was from the same town in Pennsylvania and hadn’t seen my last name since she moved from there. Hawaii has a lot of Hawaiian/Hawaiian inspired names. Kawika is Hawaiian inspired name just the Hawaiian spelling of David. Lehua is a Hawaiian name. Kaipo is a sort of a Hawaiian name but is mispronounced. Ka ipo ipo meaning sweetheart. If heard the name Wyatt Id think more Western than Midwestern biased by Wyatt Earp Im sure. You could probably make a case for regional names but with all the ethnicallypopular names from where immigrants settled and unique names nowadays it would be hard to name a regionally popular name until you heard it in context. When I see the last name Yoder I assume that the person has Pennsylvania Dutch background. Youre not going to find anyone named Cletus in the Northeast. I genuinely love how the American” names are respectively a medieval British occupational name a 6th century Byzantine emperor and a county in Northern Ireland. The South is the only region I can think of with much of this as there are certainly various redneck names like Jethro out there but even that kind of thing probably isnt as common now. Only other examples I can think of are areas with certain ethnic enclaves like the Italian American community in New York/New Jersey resulting in an abundance of Tonys and Vinnys and the like. Travis Austin Dallas and Beaumont are fairly common in texas but I wouldn’t call them specific. people *love* a one syllable nickname in Wisconsin. Id never met a Barbara who goes by Barb before I moved here. Same with Rebeccas who are Beck. in the south I feel like its much more common for people esp women to go by longer names without shortening them. I have a 3 syllable name and Wisconsinites try to shorten it all the time. this almost never happened to me when I lived in the south. Eastern Pennsylvania has an Amish community aka Pennsylvania Dutch” where you will encounter oldtime sounding biblical names like Zebediah”. Along the gulf coast especially Louisiana you will find Frenchderived names like Boudreaux”. In the Northeast corridor PhiladelphiaNew YorkBoston you may find Italian Vittorio Luigi… Jewish Solomon Abraham Noah.. and Irish Sean Seamus… names If your last name is something like Cabot Winthrop Huntington Lowell Astor Wentworth or Winslow there’s a good chance you’re from New England and are discreetly but exceedingly rich. Another Southern thing is that people use their middle name as their first name. If their name is James Matthew and they go by Matthew or Matt. Sometimes it is because the father and son have the exact same name but a lot of times people just use the middle name. Double names in the South. Hispanic names in California Florida New Mexico Texas and Arizona. Nick names can also be regional. Pretty much every friend group of native Bostonians includes a Sully short for surname Sullivan or OSullivan. For first names I grew up in Minnesota and LOTS of people with Scandinavian names Lasse Gunnar Lars Nils Anders Tor/Thor Freya Astrid Bjorn Ingrid… And basically every possible gren lund dal/dahl sson sen son berg quist/qvist holm last name imaginable. Bjorklund Dahlgren Thorsen Lund Lindahl Erikson Svensson etc. If you see one of those names there is a high chance they’re from my area or North Dakota. Maybe Washington state too. But mostly Minnesota. I feel like Wyatt became super trendy as a gender neutral/girl name around 2012ish Havent seen it used as much in the last few years but could swear every early gen Alpha baby i met had the name for a bit Double girl names are definitely more popular in the south. GraceAnn EllaMae etc. Purely anecdotal but I swear 90% of white New Englanders are named Sean Brian Ryan Matt Mike or Pat. Generally you’re still going to find names are more based on cultural roots than geographic location. African Americans are going to be more likely to have similar names whether they’re from Georgia or California same with Jewish people ‘Italian Americans’ and so on. But there are certainly trends that take hold regionally. Someone mentioned the double name already as being more common in the South for example. Austin Cody and Monte always make me think of the Western states. [deleted] Double Barrel names are down south Bobbie Lou Mary Sue Fannie Mae etc Colt hunter Gavin Wyatt tex holt Russ etc these people are from the southwest. They have cowboy names. Tragedighies such as Ryneelynzie Taylielyn Joughnays BylieRai etc are Mormons from Utah. Matthew Mark Luke John Mary/Marie Sarah Isaiah Catholics Vinnie Ant Tony carmie sal tommy Paulie jazelle gia Gianna Giavana Italian Americans from the Northeast. Hyuntyr Remingtonfor a girl Jaymesyn Jazmyne Kriztil/Crystyl kole Scoyout etc contemporary hick from the holler. There are a lot of Bubbas in TX Where I grew up I thought Czech German Polish and Scandinavian surnames were normal. I knew more Olsons than Smiths. I have known a few people from Appalachia named Kain/Cain. I think it might have just been a weird coincidence but out of my graduating class of 65 students 4 of my classmates were named Hunter. Regionspecific names usually depend on where immigrants to the area came from. I’m southern and have only met one person with a hyphen name and her family is from New York. My area has families with the annoying habit of giving boys first names and not using them. William John will be John. Sometimes the first name is the mother’s maiden name. Johnson Tyler will be Tyler. Last names can be much more telling as immigrants through our history would create communities together in certain areas. For example my last name is polish although Im from California its fair to assume at some point my family lived in a state with a much higher polish population Pennsylvania https//www.ssa.gov/oact/babynames/state/ So we have a whole website on this. Go play. I know that for a very long time the name Virginia was the most common girls name in Virginia. Calling people by their middle is far more common in the South. Double names are also more common in the South. I cant think of anything that is more common in other parts of the country I am sure there are some though. lol we have a Wyatt in our family that’s a teenager now. Plus our 13 yr olds middle name is Wyatt. But it’s a family name. Funny part is I’m in the Midwest. I’ve noticed from moving from the north to the south that many women have the middle name Lynn” in the south whereas it tended to be Beth or Anne up north. The heavily Italian American populated areas like New York and New Jersey have a lot of Tonys Vinnys and the like. Went to a party and 6 girls named Gianna. Esther is unusually popular in NY in the top 20 of names given to baby girls here because of the Jewish population. My last name is pretty much only in Georgia and Texas. I did a civil war lookup and only Georgia had my last name with soldiers I know its not first name but I found that interesting. Chatgpt says less than 600 people have it in Georgia and it is an English last name Louisiana and the border regions of New England have a bunch of French names. Minnesota has its Scandinavians. Alaska Hawaii and the Pacific Northwest have native Americans. Hawaii and the PNW have many Asians. These people have lived in these ares for many generations. Lee and Beau are both more common in the former Confederacy I assume because of generals by those names. There are a lot of Codys of a lot of different ages in the area where I live in Montana. Never met a Cody before moving here. If you met Billy Bob Billy Ray Joe Bob etc that might be region specific As a Midwesterner Wyatt is not a common name for older men. I would try names like Robert Michael Donald or Daniel. I’ve never met a Remy who was not from southern Louisiana. Names seem to be related to the decade more than the location. Lots of Brayden Jayden Crayden bullshit names among new parents now. They think they all have to be unique. 🙄. My son is named after my dad and my wife’s uncle. My daughter is named after my grandmother and my wife’s mother. Seems simple enough To the OP no but..there are places where a some names are more common. There are definitely state names. Alaska Hawaii California Oregon Washington..... If her middle name is Leigh theres a very good chance shes Southern. Yes thats my middle ame and its also my bestie/maid of honors. According to my husband theres a handful of names in varying degrees of Nordic that scream Minnesota ranging from Stan to Oleander. I did my family tree and the name that is used the most on both sides for 200 years and John and Samuel. I live in the deep south USA. Funny enough one side is German. The other side is Scot/Irish. To an extent yes. For example you rarely find an Ethan who wasnt born in New England. If you meet a white guy that goes by tres or Quattro chances are he is from south texas. The most extreme regional names example was when our family lived in a small town called Lexington not Kentucky and TWO of the girls at my high school were named LexAnne. I felt sorry for them in a way although they were probably fine about it. I just thought what if my parents named me Billwaukee? Ive been told there is a JamesJohn divide/preference between the southeast and northeast respectively. Anecdotally Ive found this to be somewhat supported. Bridger is a somewhat common name around the Bridger Mountains. Massachusetts has a lot of Irish adjacent names Kathleen Maureen etc And Utah has their own naming conventions that are… interesting. There is a sub dedicated to it called Tragedeighs other parts of the country do it as well but heavily done in Utah Names are more likely to symbol class and ethnicity than a region. Lastname sounding first names = Preppy ass rich white guy Tanner Brooks Parker. Or applies to a lot of girls although girls names tend to trend starting at upper class then trickle down to lower class over time Brittany in 70s probably more likely upper class Brittany in 80s/90s getting more lower class especally with funky spellings Britney LaName DeName etc.. = Black Then you have things where its obvious hippy names River or Meadow gonna be some granola eating hippie parents. Here in Minnesota its not uncommon to meet people with names like Bjorn and Nils. Upstate NY here. Went to school with a lot of Celtic and Italian first names along with traditional American. Sean Seamus Bridget… Gianna Vincenzo Teresa Marco… I’m the south Bud MarthaMay AnnieMay It was probably more the case before the internet that there were more regional differences in names. Names probably have been influenced by the immigrant groups who settled different parts. https//en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_most_popular_given_names_by_state_in_the_United_States Popular vary a lot by state and region. Here’s a great resource to see exactly how much. https//www.ssa.gov/oact/babynames/state/ Wait till you hear about Texas rodeo kids names! No NEVER... Speaking as a MidWest Michigander.. Tyrone..... In Utah they create and make up a lot of new first names. They often want their child to be the only person who has that name. When you see a large family and all the children have odd names that are not really known names people say Oh they must be a Utah family. Not location so much as ethnicity. If a guy is named Tyrone hes probably black. In turn African Americans are a distinct ethnic group from all the ethnic groups of Black Africans because the history of slavery meant that they interbred with all the other ethnic groups including the white settlers as many slave masters had illegitimate children consensually or otherwise by their slave women. That said the ethnic groups arent uniformly distributed throughout the country Youll see a lot more blacks in urban areas and in the South Hispanics are more common in the States that were formerly part of Mexico Cubans are mostly in Florida as it was the easiest State to reach by boat Asians are more common on the West Coast and Hawaii and some cities have immigrant enclaves Chinatown Little Italy Germantown etc.. Chicago has more ethnic Poles than any city in Poland except Warsaw. Louisiana has surnames taken from or otherwise inspired by French i.e. Etienne Broussard Landry. Post 97 How do you think the average American regards farm work and farmworkers? Author common_grounder Farmers are well respected but there’s a huge disillusioned about the work. So many people fantasize about having a farm and a family but don’t realize how much hard work goes into it. Most Americans are so far removed from farm work they simply dont think about it at all. That is unless directly forced to by something like this question. I’ve always had a very high opinion of them. The work ethic is off the charts. I dont think anyone looks down on them if thats what you mean. I think most people realize its really hard work that theyre glad they dont have to do. People have a high opinion of farmers. As an accountant in agriculture I absolutely love them. I really enjoy working in the industry and it’s made me appreciate where our food comes from. All these remote towns in the Dakotas/Montana/Kansas/Nebraska/Minnesota/Wisconsin they do have purpose. There are people busting their ass for all of us. High opinion of them. With a stunningly vast ignorance that turns farmers into an idealized 1950s family business and does not actually know what farmworkers do or what farm work is except for a couple of niche kinds of firming that appear a lot in movies typically involving beef or dairy cows. Dairy farms are one kind of farm that can still be a familyowned concern and run by one family at a profit. They have no idea how much of farming relies on migratory farmworkers. They dont know anything about the infrastructure set up to help those migratory farmworkers as they migrate for the crop season including schools for their children. They have no idea which crops are mechanized and which require human pickers. They dont know the difference between dent corn and sweet corn sometimes to hilarious effect or that you will die of pellagra if you eat corn that is not nixtamilized as your primary grain. Like these beautiful vast oceans of corn in which I live are a marvel of modern agriculture. But if tomorrow the US had to feed itself we would have to spring up an entire industry dedicated to processing corn so it was nutritious for human consumption as a grain. They dont know that soy is a partner crop to corn because it fixes nitrogen in the soil reducing reliance on fertilizer. They dont know that Farmers routinely lock migrant farmworkers in buildings that are oversprayed by the pesticides the farmers are spraying. This is illegal for a multitude of reasons including that you cant lock people in buildings without a fire exit but those pesticides must by law be applied in such a way that they do not contact humans accidentally. This is inconvenient so farmers just lock them indoors and spray them with the cancercausing chemicals so they can spray their crops faster. They dont know that we have significantly depleted entire underground watersheds like the ogalala which means not only is a bunch of the high plains about to become unfarmable because theres no water but it could also mean earthquakes in the middle of the country were not entirely sure because nobodys ever just pulled all the water out of the earth before. They dont know what a tractor costs. They dont know what a combine costs. They dont know how much software runs on these things and how John Deere wont let you repair your own tractor and how Ukranians were forced to jailbreak their John Deere tractor software to use them during the war and how John Deere lobbied the federal government to shut down aid to Ukraine because they were jailbreaking the software on their tractors in a time of War. I’ve got some farms around where I live. They’re small and the owners bring stuff to the local farmers markets. They’re great people who work hard! I have a lot of respect for them especially the ones who raise animals too. Illinois Farmer here. Most Americans will never experience farm work. A lot of people look down upon the idea of doing farm work because it is usually guerling manual labor. As for how they treat farmers? I can only answer from personal experience. People like the idea of farmers and will be quick to tell you farmers revered. In practice people from my the urban areas of my state tend to treat us poorly. My grandfather grew up on a farm and said it was hard shitty backbreaking work so thats how I think of it. He didnt do it as an adult and didnt want any of his kids or grandkids to. Do good in school and get an indoor job where you can sit down. Grandpa These days I figure farms are either owned by big corporations by those oldschool family farmers who are still hanging on or by dilettantes who moved away from the city to grow organic apples or something. The actual farm workers are mostly migrants who get treated poorly but put up with it because they can make money to send home. I grew up in Iowa in a town of 400. I am not able to provide a non biased response. We thank Jesus for farm workers everyday I think farm workers are the hardest working people there is. They’re out in all types of weather the heat etc. Honestly… I’ve lived in big cities my entire life and watching Clarkson’s farm despite being in the UK have be a much better appreciation of farming. That’s fucking work. And there’s far more about farming to think about that I never considered. In the midwest Lots of kids did Corn detassling in their summers off from school. Cindy Crawford the model talks about how she did that. My cousins have a Dairy and tobacco farm. My greataunt had one too. We visited the farms regularly and drank fresh milk either the cream scraped off the top smelled the manure aroma and watched calves be born. We visited the dairy for fresh cheese curds. Everyone called us City Slickers. In the city my grandparents built their own house by hand slaughtered chickens in the garage roasted pigs in the backyard etc. We ate the cow tongue chicken necks offal etc. So it’s not like we didn’t know where our food came from. When I lived in Hawai’i there are smaller farms. When we lived in Georgia there were lots of poultry farms and poultry plants. Working at the poultry plant is very very hard work for low pay. In Alaska it’s too cold for many farms. OP you’re forgetting how huge and Diverse the US is. Most people respect farmers and farm workers generally. Most never think of farmers unless they need to use them for a politicallycharged rallying cry. When I was in school in the midwest the farmers were usually poor and their kids had to get up early to do a shit ton of chores. Seemed like a whole lot of extra work in order to still be poor anyway. Theyre disproportionately revered. Theres a chunk of American society who think working on a farm gives you higher moral credibility. I don’t think people have a clue as to how much of a grind it actually is. The never ending debt cycle too much rain not enough price fluctuations… it’s the only business where you have no control of input prices nor the price of the goods you sell. Hard. Underpaid. Necessary. I come from a long line of farmers since they were granted land from fighting in the war of 1812. My father was one of the first ones who left. Super long hours especially around planting and harvesting but a strong community. When my family finished with their harvesting/planting they would help their neighbors with their farms. They farmed mostly corn and soy beans so it was equipment heavy. A harvester combine for example costs around $500k then you need semi trucks to carry it to market. Depends on where you live I think. Im in the midwest and surrounded by farms and I run a parts store that wouldnt exist if not for them and my brother is a farmer so I appreciate what they do and the hours they put in. But I dont think thats the norm. Pretty much the same as every other country that has a service based economy. Normal hardworking people who grow our food and may be you your cousin or your friend at church. Most people are ignorant of how much work farming entails. Ones to exploit for cheap produce sadly Farms and Farm Owners are revered. Farmworkers are despised and deported. Hopefully grateful for the food they are about to eat. Honestly… I’ve lived in big cities my entire life and watching Clarkson’s farm despite being in the UK have be a much better appreciation of farming. That’s fucking work. And there’s far more about farming to think about that I never considered. Its necessary work that I have no interest in doing. The same could be said for a lot of professions. Kids mostly look up to them because of Old McDonald and his powerful lobby in the children’s music industry My family were all farmers when there were still small dairy farms. They worked so hard. Then the big corporations came in and they couldn’t stay afloat. MUCH RESPECT!!! I think most people gain respect for farming once they start thinking about their food chain. If they are clueless about it they may think otherwise or just not think about it at all... Im not sure. I am not one myself but I come from a long line of farmers mainly citrus. My uncle was the last one so far anyway well have to see what the grandkids do but I dont think hopes are high for anyone returning to it he had PhD in soil science from Davis and back in the 50s or 60s he developed an irrigation method that used 70% less water for citrus. His last grove was a walnut grove. He was definitely one of the smartest people Ive ever known. High regard for actual small farmers and farm workers. Very low regard for mega farms that exploit their workers and act like some of the biggest welfare queens in the country. I have a bunch of family that are farmers. It’s hard work so I think highly of it. But even with that it’s not something I think about all that often. Not that much unless they’re really hungry I think its simple work for simple people. I dont know about the average American but I understand it is **HARD work for family farmers.** I am also aware that a high percentage of farming is done by huge companies. I live in a very large city and I knew a guy in high school who always wanted to be a farmer. As soon as he graduated he went to work on a farm. If memory serves he lasted less than a year. i don’t usually think about them tbh… not that i don’t care but they’re not in my area. the only farms i see are amish farms when i go to PA and they seem to be doing alright. eta i watch clarkson’s farm sometimes but 1 he’s in the UK 2 i dunno how many workers are on his farm in general 3 he’s a celebrity so the dynamics are different. The average American thinks farmers are poor and barely scraping by and stare at the sky praying for rain so they can get a good crop this year and feed their neighbors. Where the reality is farmers have more assets than you more debt than you more advanced tech than you and FAR more interest in politics than you. Water rights environmental regulations tax code changes subsidies gene splicing hazmat immigration policy debt restructuring rules… your local farmers are more invested in politics than just about anyone you know. Americans view farmers like they view schoolteachers. When they are far closer to people who own car dealerships. Most people not just Americans but worldwide know about as much about farming as they know about making supersonic jets. Worldwide 27% of the population is employed in an agriculture related job. That percentage includes farmers equipment sales and repair granary workers seed and fertilizer sales and other such jobs. The only reason those numbers are so high is because developing nations still have a majority of the population living as farmers. However in the US just 2% of the population are farmers and another 8.4% are peripherally employed in agriculture. For 2% of the population to produce so much food it requires each farm to have highly advanced technology tens of millions of dollars in land and millions more in equipment. Farmers are well educated highly skilled and business savvy. They are not the ignorant unskilled yokels that most of the population thinks they are. I live in a very rural area where people still farm. I can tell you that people have weird ideas about farmers and farmhands and farm work. First as some have said they have a high opiniob of farmers but what they think of as farmers and farm life mostly does not fit reality today. It more fits my grandparents day. My grans were small farmers 3 small chicken houses for layers about a half dozen beef calves a year two hogs for their meat and a spattering of small fields of melons most years sometimes different crops for truck sales or farmers market sales plus a couple acres kitchen crops for their use. We have a few organic farms around here or individuals who keep a handful of animals for their own use who fit the ideal most Americans have. Most farms dont fit that mold any longer. Theyre generally more single crop huge operations that require a lot of hired workers to do the work. Those workers do grueling work for very little pay. Long hours and lots of piece work pay. Meaning you get paid depending on how much you produce. The farmer is more a small businessman. We have more chicken houses here than anything these days and most for meat. Theyre gigantic and usually people have a half dozen or so. Then there are the processing plants. Also ag work and nasty grueling low pay jobs. It STINKS! in a chicken processing plant. Georgia tried the whole immigration crackdown thing during Trumps first term. The idea was theyre takin good Mercan jobs! But that was by people who dont work those jobs or know anything about them. No one showed up to do those jobs even though they raised the pay slightly. There isnt a lot of room for movement on agribusiness jobs. Farming even mega farms is just not very profitable. Georgias crops went unharvested. Prices jumped and there were shortages. You cannot pay enough to interest most young healthy Americans to do that work. Georgia dropped their crackdown on immigration before that season ended and tried to quietly welcome migrants back. They didnt come. Probably one reason our Gov. Brian Kemp is no longer all that fond of Trump. The election crap is the main reason. People have the same kind of notion about farmers and farm workers as they do cowboys and the wild wild west. They do not care a wit about actual ag workers or farm owner/business people. I like them and try to buy directly from them when I can. I assume most Americans don’t think about them since a majority of Americans population wise live in urban areas where there aren’t farms. I think the average American regards farm work as below them” and probably thinks most farm workers are dumb country bumpkins or illegal immigrants from Mexico and that they are all poor. I know personally that this is not the case at all but that’s what I think the average American thinks. About 100 years ago the majority of Americans were either living on farms or in communities subsistent on farms and agriculture. Now most live in cities and the suburbs. I’d say the majority are pretty removed from the happenings on farms today. I have several friends who own working farms. Many people don’t understand how many kinds of farms there are. I have friends with dairy farms cattle farms hog farms turkey farms cotton corn or other grains vegetables orchards Christmas trees and other trees… I grew up on a farm so I am quite familiar with it and how hard it is. Im just a bit too old now to do it. Married into a farm family who no longer farm so I definitely hear about the less romantic idealized version all the time. A bunch of my farmers in my area just enthusiastically voted last November to have many of their own workers deported so at the moment I’m confused by that. I love going to the state fair to see all the prized farm animals that the kids in 4H raised and realizing there is an entire world out there that I know nothing about. As a farmers daughter I appreciate them but I’m also intensely happy that I’m not throwing hay bales every summer anymore I find myself in a very unusual position. I grew up spending summers working on my grandparents farm. I spent my career in tech. Over the years IM55 have purchased 1200 acres near the home place as an investment. A niece and her husband are going to raise crops on the land as part of their larger operation. It is interesting to see the reaction of everyone to the purchase. Opinions of farmers vary widely from salt of the earth to dumb rednecks... for good reasons. I have come across farmers who range from working 80 hours per week rain or shine while devouring every reputable farm journal to keep on top of the latest advancements to MBAs and people with Masters degrees in soil science and biology to lazy bums who are coasting on the rent they earn from the land their parents and grandparents worked to pay off. A good percentage of our neighbors are resentful of our success. Between land we own land we rent and land with customplanted and harvested crops we farm between 7000 and 8000 acres. I like to think we are not evil. We are just consistently in the top 20%25% for efficiency ROI. We reinvest all the money we earn back into the farm. A significant portion of the cash is invested in longterm financial assets which serve as a buffer against unfavorable years and as collateral for future purchases. Another chunk is allocated to shortterm investments for additional land purchases. Unfortunately most of our purchases are from people who consistently fall into the lower 2025% efficiency range. Over time they have a bad year or two they cant handle. The other group is heirs who sell the family farm when a parent or grandparent dies. American Farmer by the Charlie Daniels Band. Somewhere between indifferent/ignorant and badly depending on if they’re a resident of flyover country or the coastal cities. I’m not advocating for that but I think that covers at least 2/3 of American opinions. I learned to drive a tractor as a part of highschool and took great pride in being a member of my local FFA as a youngin. Having left the south this is weird to other Americans. It blows my mind. I thought future leaders of America was a joke when I heard it on tv. Nope. Rural vs urban areas Farmers are capitalists who own a lot of capital and get a lot of subsidy from the government Farm laborers are primarily immigrants who are paid a sub minimum wage and no overtime to help make sure the farmers can make money Very high. They are the salt of the earth. Their hard work feeds us all. I appreciate them very much. They keep us fed. Without them wed starve so I think most people have a high opinion of them. In my experience Americans in general think poorly of farmers and ranchers. Vast majority have the assumption farmers are uneducated which is far from the truth. With great respect. Most people don’t If asked the average American has broadly warm albeit vague feelings about them My family doesnt have farmers anymore but Im a descendant of a long line of farmers and have been thoroughly educated by my grandma who grew up on a farm. I have nothing but respect for farmers its a laborious lifestyle. I am grateful to farmers and farm workers. I eat a lot of produce. I shop at farmers’ markets every week so I get to know the farmers. I tell them that I can’t stand hot weather hours on my feet or bending over so I am extremely appreciative of them. Much respect and gratitude As a high school student I marched with Cesare Chavez in California got civic credits too! All the Mexican immigrants Ive ever worked with apartment maintenance pool builders restaurants have been outstanding people who work incredibly hard. I think I like food on the supermarket shelves I think its back breaking labor that isnt valued as it should be. The biggest concern I had for Covid was food chain disruption but this summer may be when my nightmare comes true. I love farmers and farm workers they keep us fed! I don’t know what the average American thinks. Only my own opinion. I think farm workers aren’t paid enough for very intensive hard work. I think also that they should NEVER be exposed to chemicals and pesticides. I think also that inspections should include fair labor standards. Re farmers. I have a lot of respect for the small farmer. They’re being swallowed up by corporations. Small farmers usually care about their workers animals and farm. Even if they’re not organic many of them are thoughtful about using chemicals — especially around their family and workers. I also believe that our food is tasteless compared to Europe. They have much better laws including to protect pollinators not just honey bees. Their food is fresher and healthier. I understand if we paid farm workers what they’re worth our food prices would go up significantly. Takes them for granted I’m in a rural area. I see the crews out picking fresh produce and know exactly what weather they dealing with in the deep south USA. I’m grateful to every one of them. Since the average American has an IQ of under 100 I doubt they think of them at all. I don’t know any farmers nor have ever been to a farm though we do have them in parts of my state but I’ve always imagined them as hard working strong work ethics etc.. overall strong positive view I live in the US and I think they are essential to our food supply. I also think people in the US take the food supply for granted. They dont. Most Americans are so far removed from farm work. They have no idea. If the American is just graduating from high school then they probably view farmers as unadventurous hicks who simply accepted their lot in life in the boonies for lack of wanting something more. When this young American passes their 30s they very well might start to see the charm of working with something natural and tangible. If that American is a farmer then they will probably tell you that they hate it. My best friend in college was from a farming family. That is some hard work. Her dad was always running out to fix or do something or other. So much work. No thanks not for me. But Im glad someone does it. So i guess thats a longwinded way of saying i feel grateful for them. Overall we do not give them enough credit for doing what they do. Im a very average American and I have a healthy respect for farmers and their work. Partly because Ive grown up taught to respect everyone regardless of job or station or because Ive known a couple of farmers and know how much blood sweat and tears they put into their farms. Either way our world would be so much less than what it is now without them. As an average American I consider farm work too hard for me to do. Magic....no workers needed...food just springs from the earth...leaps in boxes and transports to the grocery...everyone knows that...we dont have no actual farmers I think most are just thankful they aren’t having to do it themselves. Farm OWNERS or actual farm workers? Because theyre not necessarily one in the same. Many of the farms local to me use migrant / seasonal workers H2A or undocumented and well theyre not really well loved in my rural red area. Depends on what you consider farmwork. Farm work in California is very different from farm work in the mid west. Working in the fields in the central valley or Northern California is not anything like driving an air conditioned combine. Farm workers in California until very recently worked for minimum wage or less 7 days a week during planting and harvesting with overtime only coming after 60 hours of work in a week. They had to fight for shade and a place to sit for breaks and live in shitty migrant housing. The people who are called farmers dont do much work at all and have gobs of money while bitching about being broke. Lived in an agricultural area for 50 years and this is my experience In a weird way I think Americans respect farmers similarly to our veterans. not trying saying they are comparable in any way but the publics treatment of them Everyone would express gratitude if interviewed about it but a few might have private negative opinions. Almost everyone be interested in supporting them and programs for them as long as its not out of their pocket. Happy to thank them for their service if they ever met one but not actually wanting to know how much they have been through to have provided that service. I dont think anyone particularly looks down on a farmer especially the ones who run the entire farm operations they need to know a lot about a ton of different things. Farm hands or general laborers get a bad rap of being unskilled no job is truly unskilled imo but they are amazing people who work their ass off and deserve way more recognition and pay most Americans would quit their first day in a field and without them food would get very expensive. My mother grew up on a farm and we have relatives who still farm. Im a city girl. Most of my neighbors kind of farmers as uneducated rubes. Im more than happy or irate to correct them. Where do yall think your food comes from? And how much work and knowledge it takes to get it there? Idk but I’ll speak for myself. I think farming is super hard work and very dangerous. It’s also a very essential job. I seldom think about it unless it comes up as a topic. Having supported my dean in her research on small farmers I admire them especially knowing firsthand how much effort even a small garden takes. The average American regards them as absent because Trump either deported them or scared them all away from work. Because he is an idiot. Furthermore the average farm owner who voted for Trump is also an idiot. Pretty highly. Everyone I know understands no farmers no food. Personally I grew up in the suburbs of Southern California and I didn’t grow up thinking very much about agriculture farming and ranching and the farmers and ranchers who work hard to feed us all even though the area where I grew up Orange County had a strong agricultural history which was in its last days the area is virtually completely urbanized now outside of a few isolated parts that remain undeveloped but are not agricultural. Learning about agriculture wasn’t exactly emphasized by the local school systems either which in hindsight I consider irritating and disturbing. I say emphasized” but the truth of the matter is that we really weren’t exposed to any real education about farming or ranching at all other than perhaps some brief passing references in books and educational films that gave brief explanations of things like how cows were milked by milking machines or how crops were planted and harvested. Most of my education about various aspects of agriculture has been obtained on my own and mostly in my adult years. When I was still in school I never really knew about outside of hearing the name and having a vague understanding that it had something to do with farming or environmental education and nothing at all about Future Farmers of America and frankly from what I’ve since learned about these organizations and what they offer I regret not being exposed to them since I might have found such knowledge and education interesting and valuable and might have even gotten into the agricultural field in some manner. An interesting point in my learning about farming that began my interest in learning more about agriculture happened in my mid20s when I lived in Colorado in the early 1990s for a few years. At one point I had a brief sales job that was essentially doortodoor and over a couple weeks I traveled throughout Southern Colorado to some small towns and one time I came along with my boss on a sales call he had at the house of a farm couple outside of the southeastern Colorado town of Lamar. We had a very nice visit and did our product demonstration and afterwards we chatted with them. They had a great big wheat field behind their house and I remember as we were leaving telling them that I had never seen a wheat plant before other than wheat stalks depicted on boxes of breakfast cereal. I asked what bread and cereal and other wheat foods were actually made from in relation to the plant itself and I remember the wife plucking a stalk and extracting a wheat kernel from it and handing it to me — this tiny little seed. That was what was pressed into wheat flakes and ground into wheat flour and so on. Just something so simple like that and I had never been exposed to it until I was an adult. I remember being delighted to finally get an answer to this question which had bugged me for years but was never important enough I thought to really find out about. But it kind of bugged me that I was only just now learning this. Later on as I thought about it I thought that it was really pretty shameful that I had gone for most of my life without knowing something so simple and basic about the food we eat and that we take SO MUCH for granted in this society. In the years since I’ve made an effort to try to learn more about farming and ranching and the agricultural world and I believe now that it’s a fundamental part of life that more Americans should be better educated in. One of the reasons our society is so fractious right now is because there’s been a widening divide in this country between rural Americans and urban &amp suburban Americans and I believe that urban &amp suburban America has not been adequately taught about what life is like in rural America and this invariably means being educated about agriculture. I think if more of us knew more about how agriculture works and where our food comes from that we would not only make better choices in our diet but we could potentially bridge the cultural divide between urban/suburban and rural America. I think it is really cool but more work than I would want to do and so much success depends on the weather makes to much stress for me I think its probably a very difficult job and Im grateful that I can benefit from it without having to do it myself! I live in an agricultural area of my state. I am appreciative of alllllll the crap alllll the farmers ranchers and producers deal with. Its alot. They hold all of the following different images simultaneously Farmers are the salt of the earth they are the wise Old Ones attuned to what is most true and they can make fix or raise anything. Farmers are dumb smelly hicks with no real intelligence or education. Farmers are either savvy tenth generation megafarm owners who lean MAGA or theyre wideeyed twentysomething neohippie wannabees who vote for Bernie and will go bellyup in two years and have to sell the llamas when the trust fund runs out. Farmers have it easy they never have to commute to an office or struggle with technology or bureauracy plus they dont pay taxes and get subsidies for not growing things. Farmers have it hard theyve been left behind by modern policy and cant keep things going without migrant labor. Nobody actually farms anymore right? Like isnt it all robots or imports or something? The closest I ever came to living on a farm was when we lived in a house on the city limits during my grade school years. Neighborhood in front fields woods &amp a river behind plus a barn &amp three outbuildings. Best of both worlds. Even had both a street address &amp RFD address. City water &amp electric but we had to burn our trash. Really great place for a kid my age. All developed now. The avg American knows nothing about farms and farm work in the real world. I respect them because I know it is hard work and I couldnt do it. Americans think food comes from the store. I grew up around farmers. We had a Future Farmers of America club at our school that competed in soil judging. We didnt think anything about them differently than anyone else. The average American probably doesn’t give much thought to farmers or ranchers for that matter most just think their meat and produce magically appear in grocery stores. I can’t tell you the amount of times I’ve seen friends or family attacked by others on social media for posting hunting pics like deer or elk because the disconnect is so great they can’t fathom that that’s where meat comes from… It’s infuriating at times. Personally I’m thankful everyday for our farmers and ranchers for putting food on our tables and for doing the tough thing that so many others now refuse to do. I come from a family of hunters so seeing a full deer butchered isn’t out of the norm for me and I’m happy that it can provide food for my family and others. I don’t know about other Americans but I think it is some of the hardest work to be done. I’m from central Illinois. Corn and soybean country. There are two different images that most Americans have and they are not congruent. The average” American sees them this way 1 the American farmer. An older white man salt of the earth face and hands rough from the sun and hard work can trace his ancestry to 1600s family farm works alongside his sons and daughters and a few hands who look like him. 2 agricultural migrant workers usually from south of the border. Huge numbers poor invaders here illegally to try and steal jobs healthcare education etc. Neither of these are true or accurate but they both exist side by side in the psyche of a lot of Americans. Most probably don’t care. I know I don’t. Obviously we need them but that’s all I got Living in the Central Valley of California I see big scale farming all the time. It’s pretty incredible. Vegetables fruit wine grapes cattle and their feed hops pigs poultry just about every crop or livestock you can imagine. They are held in a high enough regard that most people that complain about welfare and socialism have no issues with farm subsidies and bailouts. The average American probably doesnt know much at all about farming or farmworkers. Theres still plenty of farms owned by families but I gem like theres a lot of corporate owned farms now. All I know is Id never want to do it. I have a garden and thats pain in the ass enough for me. I couldnt imagine how difficult maintaining a farm would be. A lot of us come from rural areas and we certainly dont look down on farmers or farm work because we know its really hard work. And in my rural Midwest community that I grew up in the farmers were the ones with money and nice big country houses. They arent exactly rich but compared to the rest of the poor community where there arent any good jobs they are well off by comparison. I grew up around hay farms and cattle ranches. I think helping in those industries helped me to appreciate all the work they do. I still love seeing combines during the harvest season it’s an awesome sight to see. Better them than me! Its hard work and I dont envy people who do it. Charlie work. I can’t speak for the whole country but the average Northeastern/MidAtlantic urban American doesn’t think about farmers or farm work at all. The ones who do are divided between people who understand and honor how much work goes into farming and how most Americans couldn’t handle picking strawberries for two hours and people who think farmers and farm workers are provincial and ignorant. Farmers are the ones who own the farm. So that leaves farm workers. Im MexicanAmerican. My grandparents were born in California and they came from the fields. That was regarded as *the* bottom. They escaped the fields thanks to World War II. Long story but most Americans can imagine. You better finish high school unless you want to end up out in the fields my elders would say to us young ones. That was an unrealistically awful fate for your average high school dropout brown or otherwise but it felt like a real threat just the same. We regarded the fields as the bottom that our people scratched and clawed to rise out of. Thats something thats ingrained pretty deep in the MexicanAmerican psyche. Well for a lot of us at least. Maybe its different if your family went from Mexico straight to inner city East L.A. or San Franciscos Mission District rather than to one of the California farm towns. Or maybe its different for folks out in New Mexico or Texas. I couldnt tell you. Anyways one time I was down in Ensenada in Baja California Mexico. I saw a bunch of people working out in the fields. And I thought to myself if all my elders said that working out in the fields in Alta California [USA] was as bad as it gets then what is *this?* It felt I was seeing the bottom beneath the bottom. Depends. I lived in a ag area of CA and while the farm owners are valued the farm workers are not. Theres a lot behind that that’s racial and political but I’ll just leave it here for anyone to interpret. The owners are generally wealthy white men and the workers are generally migrant from central and south America. Farming is hard work! Farmers are awesome! I dont think the average person thinks about it. You drive by a picturesque farm and appreciate it but the amount of work required doesnt register. Most Americans see farm work like that one tough cousin nobody invites to parties super important but kinda invisible. They know farmers grow food but farmworkers? They’re like the unsung heroes who actually do the heavy lifting while everyone else just eats. Respect but also maybe time to stop ignoring them! Sadly I think many Americans dont stop to really think about where their food is coming from. And of the ones who do they have romanticized views. I worked as a mechanic for a farming company. All year climate little over 2400 acres. Lettuce broccoli cauliflower celery and bock choy. The owners/managers were all about keeping the fields turning over yields and choosing crops that would be in demand upon harvest time. Most of the actual work was done by hourly workers. Probably 150200 full employees plus contract companies. It was fascinating to watch the plots cycle from plowing to planting to cultivating to harvesting The average American thinks it’s beneath them to work a laborer job on a farm and think that the boy way that we can have food is to bring in migrant workers I appreciate them when I think of them but I don’t do that often. Large scale farming isn’t really a thing up here in Massachusetts. Some folks have hobby farms or small scale farms but that’s about the extent of my exposure to farms. I also think about how that lifestyle could never be for me Americans generally think that farmers are very land rich but because they love what they do usually born into it they work very hard long days with few or no days off. We think they work hard all their life and then die leaving millions to their children unless the children take over the farm and repeat the pattern. Oh and American farmers are indeed very land rich. The ones that I know are millionaires when they must finally quit. Farmworkers are generally very poor. I’ve know them to sleep in the barn while working at the farm. * Story. I once was at a gas station where two old farmers were talking. They chatted and then began discussing very technical chemical issues with some problems they were having. I was a little stunned. Just two good old boys but of course they were wellversed with the chemistry of modern farming. Not very well. We have a lot of respect for family farms and farmers but that barely exists here anymore. We are generally unhappy about corporate farming but not enough to actually do anything about it. I don’t think people in the U.S. have ever had much respect for farm hands field worker agricultural workers pickers etc. Even in our mythologized history field hands were suspicious. The nomadic nature of the work made people wonder what they were running away from or why they didn’t settle somewhere and become part of a community. And now it is assumed they are illegal immigrants and probably doing something illegal on the side because the pay is ridiculously bad. Without the proper respect Honestly Id bet 75% dont think about them at all. When pushed most people would underestimate the amount of work and over estimate their income. I live in rural NJ where a good portion of residents have active farms. They get alllll the respect. They are certainly respected following a time of being taken for granted. Weve lived in farming states and adjacent to farms for the past 33 years so its part of the culture to which were accustomed. I dont think theres an average thought about this subject that would be meaningful. Its polar issue. My grandfather was a farmer so I am biased. He worked hard 7 days a week. Cows had to be milked chickens &amp pigs had to be fed and when it was time to harvest the hay he came in so tired he could barely talk. And he could outwork his grandsons even in his 70s! So I have mad respect for farmers. I think people underestimate how hard it is especially the field working jobs. Tough SOB’s doing something I’m not cut out to do Farming is largely done by huge corporations in this country but there are still some independent farms. Farming is respectable work definitely hard work. Im just glad that I dont have to do it. Hard working Im a farmer and the average American has a complicated and not entirely rational view of us They romanticize the life but also think we are evil corporate shills who are trying to kill them. Their politics forecast which side of this schism they will fall on. Similarly they assume they know our political views and decide whether they love us or hate us in advance solely because of our profession and location. They think its easy and peaceful and simple devoid of any of the complications of modern life. Neglecting to realize that agriculture requires technology and the intelligence to manage it. They generally dont understand that a farm has to be run as a business and they really *really* dont like it when that business is profitable. Something about a farmer achieving wealth *really* sets city people off even though realistically its not different than any other similar sized small business in a city. They wildly underestimate the work commitment and fortitude it takes to be successful at it or even to survive. They tend to think its unimportant and must not involve much money because it happens in the boondocks. And more than probably any other profession people who have never done it before *insist* that you are doing it ALL WRONG BECAUSE THEY SAW A YOUTUBE VIDEO of a guy who holistic organic fair trade free trade pH balance yogi centric regenerative holy water revolutionary permacultures. And even though its not clear if he farms in Saskatchewan or Puerto Rico or if he actually grows anything or makes any money the point is that HIS WAY IS THE ONLY RIGHTEOUS AND TRUE WAY AND YOU SHOULD ADOPT IT IMMEDIATELY. Suburban guy here who lives in the outskirts of farm land. I admire empathize appreciate and respect what farmers do. I think many people 1. think farmers are stupid and 2. it’s glamorous. Both are 100% false. Free loading welfare moochers Politically hypocrites I dont know anyone who thinks badly about farmers. It is a highly respecte profession. We are very aware of how difficult the life is. rather poorly Im an organic produce farmer. The average American has *no fucking clue* what I do. They think Im the same as corn farmers. They think I drive a tractor around in the spring and then a big combine in the fall and trucks take all my crops away and that I get a big fat government check. Average Americans think food comes from WalMart. Post 98 Why do Americans pronounce Abbottabad as Abaadaabaad? Was watching a documentary on the Bin Laden raid and I was reminded of an old bugbear of mine. The place is Abbottabad literally named for a dude named Jim Abbott. Pakistanis and Indians pronounce it Abbottabad. As in literally the name Abbott followed by abad. Why o why do Americans pronounce it Abaadaabaad? Be it CNN anchors or veteran journalists or seasoned foreign policy politicians they all go Abaadaabaad.Sounds like something from be SNL or South Park. Why? Non stressed Ts that don’t start phonemes in North American English are tapped which many people hear as a D. Youd have to take that up with the Pakistani government who provide the pronunciation guide. English speaking countries sometimes pronounce words differently. Did you miss the 20 different ways bin laden’s name was pronounced in the documentary? Until the raid most Americans had never heard of the city. Me being from Hyderabad and living here in the states I also can’t say Abbottabad. There’s two things you’re hearing 1. The [d] for the tt in Abbott is just t/dflapping this is a normal and practically universal feature of American English 2. Hyperforeignism which is a type of hypercorrection where an obviously foreign word is pronounced in a way a speaker thinks is more foreign” to make it sound more correct not necessarily consciously either!. Here it’s the stress pattern ABbottabad vs abBOTTabad but a famous example would be *Beijing* — almost all English speakers use a zh” sound for the &ltj as if it were French despite the fact that the &ltj represents a sound much closer to the sound in e.g. *jump* I love how Americans cant have accents. I have never heard anyone from Pakistan or India say the words The United States of America properly yet I have never been on an Indian or Pakistani sub or asked a reporter why they cant pronounce those words without their common annunciation or accent influencing their speech. Americans tend to pronounce foreign names/words with a slight nod to the original but not a full on foreign pronunciation which to us sounds pretentious. We typically dont totally Anglicize pronunciation of foreign words as much as the Brits. An example is Don Quixote. We say keyhoetee but not with a full Spanish accent. The Brits say quicksoat. My presumption on Abbottabad is its an attempt to sort of say it as if its a Pakistani name and not totally Anglicize it even if its an English name. A bit odd in this case but thats our pattern. Because people pronounce things differently all the time even among Americans and nonAmericans. Ive heard Colorado the state be pronounced Col**O**rado Col**A**rado Co**L**rado etc. You will never appease everyone. I like how when Americans pronounce this town and TRY to pronounce it the way it would be if it was a Pakistani name rather than assuming that for some reasons it’s actually named by a dude named Abbott” we are the assholes. Because it’s the name of a place in a completely different language. I wouldn’t expect someone from China who only speaks Chinese to perfectly pronounce ‘Cincinnati’ nor would I expect an American who only speaks English to be able to perfectly pronounce an Urdu name. [deleted] A word Ive never seen before and have never heard someone pronounce. Why? Accents and dialects are different and words are hard when it isnt a common word said in that language or culture. The same reason words are mispronounced in other countries. I just watched 5 pronunciation videos for Abbottabad for different countries and not one of them pronounced the Abbott part like the last name. It all sounds like slight variations of Abaadabaad. I think youre splitting hairs. Accents exist. Does anyone from Pakistan or India pronounce American place names differently than an American would? They probably heard it pronounced incorrectly once adapted it and no hyperaware person corrected them on their mistake. Were sorry. Wait until you learn about the multiple spellings/pronunciations of Gaddafi/Khaddaffi/Gadafy/Quadafi! Because its not something we say in our everyday speech or even every month or year and thats how it \*looks\* like its pronounced so there hasnt been any reason to learn otherwise. Additionally every culture pronounces foreign cities and towns in their own ways. Im sure if you showed a Pakistani person a comparable American municipality theyd butcher the name too. Now that I know that it is named after a british colonial administrator I will continue to purposefully mispronounce the name as a token of disrespect to his memory. We dont!!! Maybe there is an American or even a few who do but that doesnt mean all Americans do. We stand corrected part of it is probably just us americans and our tendency to shallow our t sounds. that being said its not that weird for a city to be pronounced differently in different accents or with speakers that have different native languages. Look at how Köln or Munchen are different in english vs german. honestly just be happy there aint an abbottabad alabama. wed really butcher it then. Can you detail the methods you took to determine that Americans mostly do this? I assume some sort of statisticallyvalid methodology was involved? That is a silly question really. English speakers change things all the time. Why do we call Deutschland Germany? Why do English call french fries chips? My good friend from India can’t pronounce the V” in veggie properly and it is pronounced as a W” instead. People screw up the names of places all the time compared to how locals pronounce it. The pronunciation of the U.S. state Nevada tells whether you are from the state/west or not. English doesn’t have standard pronunciation of letter combinations. There are some rules that we internalize that are based on the language of origin of the word so many loan words. But the same letter combinations can have famously different pronunciations through dough cough bough etc.. When we see an unfamiliar word or place name we guess. Since we don’t see many Pakistani place names named after people with English surnames who am I kidding most of us don’t see many Pakistani place names at all we wouldn’t guess that Abbottabad is named after a guy named Abbott and so we would look to other clues to figure out what the rest of it might sound like rather than just tacking on an abad” to Abbott. Ab is a prefix meaning away from like absent. So that leaves botta” which looks kind of like lotta or gotta. In your experience do people still say it wrong after they’re corrected? Pakistanis and Indians pronounce it Abbottabad. As in literally the name Abbott followed by abad. Maybe if it had the hyphen in it as above itd be more clear. Absent that and absent the knowledge of the etymology its reasonable that most Americans pronounce it incorrectly. Even moreso how many times do you think Americans ever say it? Maybe 0.00001% of Americans ever utter the name. FWIW I dont get perturbed by nonEnglishspeakers mispronouncing American place names so if I were to say it I wouldnt feel any shame in pronouncing it the way you dislike. Im not in the habit of calling folks pedantic but your post absolutely is. I think its an accent thing. I know that I and others where I live tend to pronounce o as a and t as d when quickly saying things. Are you asking about the vowel sound or the softened t to d sound? The latter is a feature of American English the former is almost certainly a case of people repeating what they heard without looking up the pronunciation guide. Which is common considering how many people dont know how to pronounce the English word forte. Hint it is pronounced the same way you pronounce Fort in Fort Dix. I can only speculate but Id guess that its because most of us dont know the history of the name and assume it is meant to be pronounced similarly to other words in the languages of that region. We generally turn a t in the middle of the word in certain circumstances into more of a /d/ sound. Like Saturday daughter matter…. The t between vowels is sometimes pronounced as a tap /ɾ/. For example words like water and daughter… we do not make the usual t sound when pronouncing those words. I’d guess the same is applied for the tt between vowels in Abbottabad. ETA there’s an MLB pitcher with the surname Abbott and even the tt at the end of his name changes to more of d sound a flap ɾ if the next word starts with a vowel eg Abbott overthrew the pitch If it helps I have never said it out loud. This is just one of those weird things that is going to trip up a lot of American speakers. abad hasnt fully entered the US lexicon as a town / place name descriptor. It is working its way in but its not all the way in yet like ville ton berg or polis has. And unfortunately bad *is* an English word. So at first glance most American speakers are going to separate Abbottabad into Abbotta and bad. And this is where the second coincidence is coming into play. For most American speakers that tta sound is going to turn into a ta which at the end of the word is going to be pronounced almost exactly like da. So abbotta turns into abbodda. Combine that with bad at the end and you get abboddabad. Also to the normal American person its going to seem really really weird that a town in Pakistan is going to be named after a guy named Jim Abbott. Knowing some of the history of Pakistan I am *studiously avoiding looking it up because I do not wish to be further reminded of the behavior of Englishmen while not in England.* Well Americans have their own ways of pronouncing things that are not native to the American English. Take for instance how they say EyeRan and EyeRak for those two countries. I heard news anchors say it first &amp assumed that was the way” it is pronounced. I didn’t read it and choose my own pronunciation and even if I had I would not have thought to pronounce a Pakistani place name like Abbott. literally named for a dude named Jim Abbott I was so confused I thought they named it after the one handed pitcher from Michigan. https//en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jim_Abbott I need more sleep. I think youre *drastically* overestimating the amount of Americans who have ever said the name Abbottabad. The absolute only time that city has ever been mainstream relevant in the United States was with the death of bin Laden and that was almost 15 years ago. But yeah in general I would agree with /u/stopstopimeanits post on nonstressed Ts. I forgot that we were the only country on the planet required to pronounce every single foreign language word natively or else we are ignorant Americans. That’s how Google says to it. Probably just an accent issue. I hate to break it to you but 99% of us don’t pronounce it because we don’t talk about it because we don’t really care. If you were in the military then this isn’t a topic you’ll talk about. What’s worse the rest of the people that do don’t really care if they pronounce it correctly. Ive never heard anyone pronounce it that way. It is a tapped t so youre probably just not hearing it correctly. You seem to be suggesting that someone who is foreign to our shores and language can correctly pronounce the following American place names in a local accent and local pronunciation Cuyahoga Worcester Massachusetts. For that matter Massachusetts Bucyrus Assateague. Schenectady Snoqualmie Scioto Gnadenhutten. Of course I can make this list a mile long but you get the gist. Not sure if you know this...but not everyone pronounces things the same way Hell people in the same 100 mile region in the US might pronounce words differently If you watch the Unabomber mini series the guy who used language and word choice to track down the unabomber originally got the idea because some people pronounce water is wudder The Pakistani Government provides a pronunciation guide and we attempt to match it. Why do Italians struggle pronouncing Minnehaha Minnesota? It’s not their native language Let’s see how a Pakistani pronounces Oconomowoc. Hell anybody not from Wisconsin probably says it wrong. Lots of answers here explaining how Americans pronounce d and t sounds. The fact is though that only a sliver of a tiny fraction of Americans know about James Abbott or have ever heard of Abbottabad. It’s not a tangibly relevant place to 300 million+ Americans. That a Pakistani city would have an English pronunciation would surprise most of us. Thus we do our best to pronounce it how we think a Pakistani might. Do Pakistanis pronounce it with the formal English accent that James Abbott and other English colonizers used when they named the place? If not why not? This makes me wonder how you pronounce it? Is it a short a sound like we use for Apple? Because that’s how we would pronounce Abbott. Or do you say Ahbott for the first part? How do you pronounce that O? We pronounce that named A short sound like Apple butt. I don’t know if that makes sense in writing but it seems like the vowel sounds would change away from the original sound of the word Now try Botetourt Soft ts or whatever its called as in butter pronounced as budder. Jim Abbott the baseball player? San Jose! La Canada! San Juan Capistrano! Port Hueneme! American English speakers tend to not know much about world history or geography dont care to learn how its really pronounced assume its one word meant to be spoken quickly and in guessing the rhythm will almost always turn a t in the middle of a word into a d. Post 99 Which city in the Midwest is your favorite? Author FluffyTwist984 Other than Chicago I really like Cincinnati. Madison WI Pawnee Indiana Chicago is too obvious an answer so Ill reach for the other stereotypical answer. Madison. Chicago Milwaukee MSP.. Chicago. From Milwaukee and have traveled a lot. My answer is still Milwaukee. Twin Cities!!! Minneapolis &amp St. Paul MN Chicago hands down. Detroit is slept on! Duluth. Its a city if san Francisco and Denver had a kid. Full of outdoor activities while being curved around a bay. If youre into hiking mountain biking kayaking deep sea fishing skiing but also want to be in a city. Then its a perfect fit. Large cities Cleveland Small cities Lawrence KS I mean you have to remove Chicago which is the obvious choice. Madison WI by a landslide… Hate to say it but Cleveland is underrated. Kansas City Chicago or Indy. Indy is better for kids the childrens museum is out of this world cool the zoo is great northern suburbs have a lot of great family oriented things to do. Chicago is better for the young couple or single person more bars nightlife shows restaurants. Biased? St. Louis. Unbiased? Chicago. Omaha I’ll throw in for Omaha. I don’t think I’ve been to a city the Midwest I didn’t like. They are all underrated Well Im partial to Kansas City but the unbiased choice would have to be Chicago. St. Paul or Milwaukee currently live in Chicago Cincinnati and Chicago are gonna be the top two most beloved simply because they both are typical walkable urban cities compared to other midwestern cities which tend to be very suburban. But Madison is a hidden gem which also has somewhat of a walkable area near downtown and is just a very friendly nice city. This Midwest native chooses Traverse City. Cleveland more specifically Lakewood. Chicago. I used to live there and I loved it. I found Des Moines to be very charming and clean. Minneapolis and St. Paul are constantly duking it out. St. Paul Mn Kansas City 🍖 Chicago and Kansas City Columbus or St Louis Omaha but Im biased because as a kid visiting Omaha was the same thing as visiting Grandma. Ive got a decent chunk of family there and visited that city *way* more times than anywhere else in the Midwest. Cincinnati and Duluth Omaha. Best zoo in the world Chicago big global city and also beautiful. Cincinnati is a beautiful city. Milwaukee is adorable. For a great quality of life MinneapolisSt Paul and Its also enough of a global city. Ive heard great things about Madison but Ive never been. Chicago which I guess I’m a little biased towards but it really is awesome. I’ve also had great times in St. Louis and Milwaukee Milwaukee especially Kansas City and Cleveland St Louis That’s a tough one! Chicago East Lansing Traverse City St Paul Duluth. Madison. Love Chicago! My second favorite but pretty much *only* based on the barbecue and architecture is Saint Louis. It’s a city that needs a clearer vision for the future. Feels a lot like Seattle in the 70’s. And I think it could learn from Seattle’s mistakes. Building bigger doesn’t lead to a better quality of life. St. Paul gets overshadowed by Minneapolis or lumped in as The Twin Cities but I liked it and thought it had a unique personality to it. Cincy Other than Cleveland Detroit Milwaukee theres so many festivals going on there in the summer. Lived in Pittsburgh for 5 years so I’ll choose it from a biased point of view. Based on one visit I’ll pick Minneapolis. Chicago and its not remotely close. Chicago Port Washington WI Chicago. Detroit. Columbus. Indianapolis. In that order. Lincoln Chicago Chicago. Green Bay because its the closest city to home in Michigans Upper Peninsula. Definitely Chicago No question about it it is Detroit. I love Chicago! I lived there for ten years and go back to visit when I can Chicago hands down. Amazing international foods music communities architecture etc. Ive personally been to Chicago St. Louis and Kansas City. Of those three I liked Chicago the best by a huge margin. Iowa City Iowa. Omaha Nebraska. Algoma Wisconsin. Chicago Chicago is such a great city I can hardly define it as Midwest but obviously it is. I’ve had a great time in OKC Tulsa and KC mainly for where I ate. Milwaukee Minneapolis/Saint Paul and Omaha 🫶🏻 Besides Detroit Cincinnati or Chicago. I graduated college in Omaha. Lots of fond memories of that city. Chicago its by far the most diverse and worth a trip. Chicago Milwaukee St. Louis Ive been to Chicago Minneapolis and Milwaukee. I liked them all but loved Chicago. Im going to St. Louis and Kansas City this Friday so well see how those cities are but I expect to have fun. Chicago Minneapolis/St. Paul Kansas City St. Louis. Honestly there are a lot of great cities in the Midwest. Other than Chicago Columbus OH Columbus Columbus OH St. Louis by a mile. Milwaukee Gotta be Detroit Louisville I’m a fan of Indianapolis and St. Paul. But I really love Deer Grove. Columbus Ohio. Good food scene fantastic art museum and The Book Loft in Germantown. Ann Arbor Duluth Mackinac Island Grand Rapids MI Cleveland then Cincinatti. Ive only been to them on business trips but they were among my favorite places to go. The people are friendly in both cities and I always had fun. Cleveland wins out here because of the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame. I like Sandusky OH because Cedar Point is there. Cleveland Not a big fan of cities but I do enjoy visiting Milwaukee. Don’t sleep on Indianapolis. A lot to do and relatively more safe than Chiraq. Madison. Few of my favorites Madison Minneapolis Chicago Chicago Milwaukee Chicago by far only city in the country that feels anywhere near NYC level imo Milwaukee Obviously Chicago Illinois. Madison WI….which is why I moved there Eden prairie MN After Chicago probably Columbus Oklahoma wasnt what I thought it would be since I am from Massachusetts and was relocating to Los Angeles. Very friendly state. Dont judge people Minneapolis Haven’t been there for a long while but Minneapolis. Remember that’s where Prince was from. Kansas City but I am probably biased. Chicago Chicago best Detroit and Twin Cities most underrated Chicago and then Madison WI. Minneapolis obviously. Chicago Sioux Falls Madison in that order. Kansas City but Im biased due to having been a local for six and a half years. Otherwise Dallas is fantastic by my experience. Indy is underrated and delivers bang for its buck pro sports bike friendly LCOL lots of tech startups and Cincy is fantastic a younger city with more spirit imo beautiful German architecture walkability great food fun nightlife &amp queer scene Milwaukee 💯 Minneapolis. Chicago then Minneapolis. Milwaukee and it should be YOUR favorite too! Im going with Chicago Other than Chicago Bloomington Indiana Chicago of course. Followed closely by Kansas City and South Bend Indiana. Chicago obviously. But Kansas City and Madison are very cool smaller cities IMO. Super underrated. Chicago then Madison Sioux City! Just kidding. Its Chicago. Summers there are magical. Ive never been to Pittsburgh or anywhere else in that part of the U.S. but Ive always been fascinated with its reputation as an industrial hub and the scenery looks nice whether its the downtown skyline or the bridges. Also all of its major sports teams happen to wear my top favorite color combo black and yellow. So hard to choose. I love Chicago Columbus and Traverse City. Denver Milwaukee Kansas City. Neat place good food scene anything you want to do massive ISP hub. Louisville 1. Chicago 2. Minneapolis 3. Madison 4. Milwaukee Duluth MN Fishers Indiana. Duluth MN. Chicago.. But Detroit tho. I lived in Detroit for about 18 months a few years ago. Never did get murdered not even once. Its a good town. Always something going on. Concerts ball games festivals and what not. I love Milwaukee. ❤️❤️❤️❤️ Chicago. Love the lake shore and The Museum of Science and Industry is my favorite museum and I’ve been to Smithsonian a lot. MSI is so much fun Chicago Define Midwest as sometimes people include the Great Plains in the Midwest and other times they don’t. My choice will on how you define Midwest. Which specific states? Thanks. Hawkins Indiana Kansas City. Probably because I have spent the most time and have friends there so it feels comfortable. Same for Minneapolis only have one friend there though so havent spent as much time. Both of them feel like a good combo of vacation time/comfy pjs. Chicago is fun but I havent reached a level of comfort there yet so I still get a little intimidated. I see a lot of live for Madison and I get it. Ive never had a bad time there but its not a destination city to me. I’m a sucker for college towns. I really love Lincoln NE. The university brings in tons of activities I think it punches above its weight in entertainment and food especially if you like Vietnamese the COL is really good compared to a lot of other cities I’ve lived and you’ve got easy proximity to Omaha for bigger city amenities. There’s several really solid bars and the Haymarket is really solid. Also—In Lincoln you don’t have to deal with any of the drawbacks to being in a large area like heavy traffic while still keeping a lot of the entertainment options id want out of a larger city. Some of the other larger college towns are probably similar but I’ve not visited them…so LNK gets my vote Chicago Malibu of the Midwest Sheboygan Wisconsin Does Monticello Indiana count? Technically a city. Just not a major city. It has Indiana Beach. Chicago. Madison is my second. Any answer that isn’t Chicago or Madison is wrong. I’ll also put Ann Arbor slightly in the race although the downtown gets boring after a day or two. Post 100 What city name in your state is the hardest to pronounce based on its spelling? I’m from Louisiana so I’ll start. Natchitoches. If you’ve never heard someone say this you will not figure it out. Edit please include the state Bala Cynwyd Edit Pennsylvania Skaneateles New York Sequim or Puyallup for sure I’ve heard some terrible attempts at Oconomowoc WI which is strange because it’s pronounced just like it’s spelled. Yachats Oregon. Also Willamette looks easy but is mispronounced by most people who haven’t heard it. I live in Massachusetts. Pick any and people outside of New England will probably pronounce is wrong. Most wellknown is probably Worcester. Im in Hawaii so about 99% of the names most people would pronounce wrong Kuykendahl Boerne Bexar are just some Not difficult but unintuitive Vallejo If you pronounced it like it looks in English it would be something like vallejoe If you pronounced it like it should be in Spanish it would be vayayho Instead everyone pronounces it vallayho. Coeur d’Alene Zyzzx Bowie It’s a county and small village in Ohio. Tuscarawas. Or another small town called Gnadenhutten. i dont know if its the hardest but its up there Ooltewah TN Ronkonkoma Patchogue Happaugue and my favorite Wantagh. All on Long Island New York. Micanopy Florida [deleted] Wisconsin. Not sure there are a few. Its probably either Kaukauna or Oconomowoc. It’s not hard if you know ANY Spanish but people just cannot get La Jolla. Utqiagvik Alaska formerly Barrow Not an American but this is a perfect chance to tell people that Towcester is pronounced Toaster. Louisville Kentucky Edit to addSorry! I added the state OP. My bad. Spuyten Duyvil Michigan has a bunch Sault ste Marie. SueSaintMahree Dowagiac Duhwahzheeack Ocqueoc ahkeyahk Waxahachie Even the people who live in Bourbonnais IL sometimes don’t pronounce it right. Utah is full of them Mantua Tooele Hurricane Hooper Puyallup or Sequim A lot in the Midwest Manitowoc Ontanogon Mackinac and Saranac which despite being spelled similar do not have similar pronunciation. We have a lot of options... Cochituate Haverhill Billerica Ayer... Ocqueoc Michigan. AhKEEawk Not too difficult. Im originally from Missouri and they have a town called Nevada which is pronounced Nuhvayduh. Of course they also have Creve Ceour. Similarly I live in Oklahoma now and we have Miami. Since its named for the tribe its Myamuh. I live in Louisiana too. Almost every one of them. No one can seem to pronounce any area theyve never been to. Pierre SD I havent seen Rhode Island yet either and they have both Pawtucket and Woonsocket....hint...do NOT follow your intuition and stress the first syllables of either if you wanna sound normal. Not to mention Gloucester and Scituate like in MA. Buena Vista Staunton Des Moines is pronounced wrong a lot despite being both the largest city and the capital. Usually people just get it wrong by pronouncing it phonetically but also heard someone try to say day moy which gave me a good laugh. None of the many French town names in Vermont are pronounced as they would be in France. I think the two that throw off the most outofstaters are Barre and Calais. Manalapan. Technically not a city. Fun to say Chili NY Its pronounced ChaiLie Colorado just has a bunch of Spanish place names we mispronounce like Buena Vista Byoona Vista Limon Lighmun. and Del Norte Del Nort. The county and river where the State Capital of WV Charleston is located Kanawha. There was a textbook controversy there that turned violent in the 1970s and it made the national news. Walter Cronkite of all people mispronounced it on the CBS Evening News. He said CANawah. The correct local pronunciation is kuhNAW two syllables. I’m in Georgia and instead of a city I’ll give you a county name. It’s spelled Taliafero yet it’s pronounced like Toliver. Makes so sense at all. Minnesota has so many lol Let’s start with Bemidji Massachusetts’ greatest hits Worcester Wusster Gloucester Glosster Billerica Billrica Leominster Lemonstir Reading Reding Scituate Sitchuit Salina KS pronounced Suhlienuh always get the out of staters. El Dorado KS is ElDoorRayDoe Manor Mexia Boerne Gruene Refugio Bexar Palacios Humble Manchaca I can pronounce these as a native Floridian but Ive had friends from out of state go like what?! When trying to pronounce these My nominations are Thonotosassa Ichtucknee or Wewahitchka Huger in my home state of South Carolina. Pronounced Hugee like huge followed by a hard e. My state has a Beaufort and so does our neighbor to the south. Both coastal towns. Both pronounced very differently. One of us is Bowfort. The other is beyoufirt. IYKYK. Post 1 [Subreddit Business] Clarifications on our Watsonian/Doylist rule general questions and r/WhatIfFiction Hi guys If youre new welcome to r/AskScienceFiction and if youre a returning user welcome back! This subreddit is designed to be like the r/AskScience subreddit but for fictional universes and with all questions and answers written from a Watsonian perspective. That is to say the questions and answers should be based on the inuniverse information rules and logic of the fictional work. All fictional works are welcome here not just scifi. Lately weve been seeing some confusion over what counts as Watsonian what counts as Doylist what sort of questions would be offtopic on this subreddit and what sort of answers are allowed. This stickied post is meant to address such uncertainties and clear things up. 1 Watsonian vs Doylist The term Watsonian means based on the inuniverse information rules and logic of the fictional work. In contrast Doylist means discussions based on outofuniverse considerations. So for example if someone asked Why didnt the Fellowship ride the Eagles to Mordor? a possible Watsonian answer would be The Eagles are a proud and noble race they are not a taxi service. Whereas a rulebreaking Doylist answer might be something like Because then the story would be over in ten minutes and thatd be boring. We should note that answering in a Watsonian fashion does not necessarily mean that we should pretend that these works are all real or that we should ignore the fact that they are movies or shows or books or games or that the creators statements on the nature of these works should be disregarded. To give an example if someone asked How powerful would Darth Vader have been if he never got burned? we can Anakin as Skywalker as a human being was going to be extremely powerful but he ended up losing his arms and a leg and became partly a robot. So a lot of his ability to use the Force a lot of his powers are curbed at this point because as a living form there’s not that much of him left. So his ability to be twice as good as the Emperor disappeared and now he’s maybe 20 percent less than the Emperor. In such a case according to George Lucas he wouldve been around twice as powerful as the Emperor would be a perfectly acceptable Watsonian answer because Lucas is also speaking from a Watsonian perspective. Whereas if someone associated with the creation of Star Wars had said something like Hed be as powerful as we need him to be to make the story interesting this would be a Doylist answer because its based on outofuniverse reasoning. It would not be an acceptable answer on this subreddit even though it is also a quote from the creators of the fictional work. 2 General questions General questions often do not have a meaningful Watsonian answer because it frequently boils down to whatever the author decides. For instance if someone asked How does FTL space travel work? the answer would vary widely with universe and author intent how FTL works in Star Trek differs from how it works in Star Wars which differs from how it works in Dune which differs from how it works in Mass Effect which differs from how it works in Hitchhikers Guide to the Galaxy etc. General questions like this in which the answer just boils down to whatever the author wants will be removed. There are *some* general questions that can have meaningful Watsonian answers though. For example questions that are asking for specific examples of things can be given Watsonian answers. Which superheroes have broken their nokill rules? or Which fictional wars have had the highest casualty counts? are examples of general questions that can be answered in a Watsonian way because commenters can pull up specific inuniverse information. We address general questions on a casebycase basis so if you feel a question is too general to answer in a Watsonian way please report the question and the mod team will review it. 3 r/WhatIfFiction We want questions and answers here to be based on inuniverse information and reasonable deductions that can be made from them. Questions that are too openended to give meaningful Watsonian answers should go on our sister subreddit r/WhatIfFiction which accepts a broader range of hypothetical questions and answers. Examples of questions that should go on r/WhatIfFiction include * What if Tony Stark had been killed by the Ten Rings at the beginning of Iron Man? How would this change the MCU? This question would be fun to speculate about but the ripple effect from this one change would be too widespread to give a meaningful Watsonian answer so this should go on r/WhatIfFiction. * What would X character from the X universe think if he was transported to Y universe? Speculating about what characters would think or do if they were isekaid to another universe can be fun but since such crossover questions often involve wildly different settings and inuniverse rules the answers would be purely speculative and not meaningfully Watsonian so such questions belong on r/WhatIfFiction. We should note though that some hypothetical questions or crossover questions *can* have meaningful Watsonian answers. For example if someone asked Can a Star Wars lightsaber cut through Captain Americas shield? we can actually say Quite possibly yes because vibraniums canonical melting point is 5475 degrees Fahrenheit while lightsabers are sticks of plasma and plasmas temperature is 10000 degrees Fahrenheit or more. This answer is meaningfully Watsonian because it involves a deduction using specific and canonical inuniverse information and is not simply purely speculative. 4 Reporting rulebreaking posts and comments The r/AskScienceFiction mod team always endeavors to keep the subreddit ontopic and remove rulebreaking content as soon as possible but because were all volunteers with day jobs sometimes things will escape our notice. Therefore itd be a great help if you our users could report rulebreaking posts or comments when you see them. This will bring the issue to the mod teams attention and allow us to review it as soon as we can. What about questions that are meant to look Watsonian but are clearly Doylist? For example a question I saw once was why dont men in [anime series] have nipples? Now there are two ways you can tackle this question * They absolutely do have nipples its just the art style. These are nondiegetic elements because media isnt meant to represent a story 100% faithfully. Its like asking why dramatic cello music plays during fight scenes or why female characters never menstruate etc. The piece of media is a *window* into the fictional universe but its not the universe itself. * They genuinely dont have nipples but thats just the natural state for men in that particular universe. Asking why they dont have nipples is like asking why we dont have a third eye. The characters in that universe would never ask such question the question is intrinsically out of universe because you are bringing knowledge of the real world and inserting it into the fictional universe. Either way you cant really answer it Watsonianly. This is just a Doylist question phrased to look Watsonian so the asker can feel ahasoclever. Any plans to update the FAQ? Any plans to more strictly prune questions that keep getting asked despite being on there? This question is about hypothetical changes in the future and is not an immediate request. Occasionally it so happens that the most voted comment on a thread is a spiffy line of speculation based on genre trends while a comment specifically drawing from the source material often to provide an objectively correct answer is less popular. Is the moderation team considering a way to highlight the best comment in such threads? How do you feel about using out of universe/cut content to postulate? Something like could the guys from 21 jump street stop an alien invasion?” Then the answer would be something like well they were planned to join the MIB in an unreleased movie so yes they would” A lot of times behind the scenes and cut content gives a good insight to what the writers intended just cut for budget/time constraints. As a petty aside the Eagles being too proud to carry the ring to Mordor is one of the weaker justifications. The main idea as endorsed by Tolkien himself is that the Fellowships entire premise is a stealth mission the enemy has aerial spies everywhere and getting to the Crack of Doom would be impossible through prepared forces. No offense but r/whatiffiction barely has any users and its not like this sub is super active either. It would just be difficult to get satisfactory answers from a sub hardly anyone uses. What if a post technically breaks the rules like on being too openended but before the mods get to it the post really takes off and has hundreds or even thousands of upvotes and/or a ton of discussion in the comments? At that point would the mods just make a pinned comment about it breaking the rules but being allowed to stay up or would it just get nuked? I imagine if the former it would still be a case by case basis Thanks again for the good work. This subreddit accomodates an important part of interacting with media that I feel has decreasingly little presence in most areas of the internet. Asking for a clarification on general questions and its a bit hard to explain what I mean so Ill grab an example from when /r/askscifi was still relevant How could have ancient spaceflight worked without electronics? Would a question like that be allowed? Its a bit general and it can be answered a bunch of different ways some of which would be fictional or real world example but others would be just making things up. General questions often do not have a meaningful Watsonian answer because it frequently boils down to whatever the author decides. Do not *all* watsonian answers boil down to whatever the author decides? Like all the precise facts about spiderman are just as much authorial declarations as vampire lore. Ive never seen how a general answer is any more drawing on what the author says than a specific one. I am once again petitioning to remove the dumb watsonian requirement. Post 2 [Star Wars Rogue One] Why Does Krennic Ask Vader If Hes Still in Charge of The Death Star? When Kennic goes to Vader he asks the Sith Lord if he still has command of the Death Star. But why? The Death Star was taken over by Tarkin and we saw in A New Hope that Vader was subservient to Tarkin. So could Vader even do anything restore Krennics authority? Or was Krennic unaware of the current hierarchy between Vader and Tarkin? Edit Thanks for all the great replies. I guess I should rewatch New Hope because I always interpreted Tarkin as having more authority and influence than Vader at that point. **Reminders for Commenters** * All responses must be A sincere B polite and C strictly watsonian in nature. If watsonian or doylist is new to you please review the full rules . * No edition wars or gripings about creators/owners of works. Doylist griping about Star Wars in particular is subject to **permanent ban on first offense**. * We are not here to discuss or complain about the real world. * Questions about who would prevail in a conflict/competition not just combat fit better on r/whowouldwin. Questions about very openended hypotheticals fit better on r/whatiffiction. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Vader is not exactly subservient to Tarkin. Vader answers to Palpatine and no one else. While he may heed Tarkins suggestion he does not have to listen to him and Tarkin couldn’t really do anything to punish Vader. In that particular scene he wants Vader to put him back in command but we never really see Vader to anything with this request before Krennic gets killed Vader’s place in the hierarchy is rather fluid. He’s outside the normal ranks second only to the Emperor but at the same time doesn’t really outrank anyone officially. But he is a direct line to Palpatine and generally is considered to be Palpatine’s direct operative. So if Vader says ‘Yes you are still in charge’ that’s effectively saying that the Emperor hasn’t given Tarkin full command. Tarkin is de facto in command at this point but not de jure that gives Krennic an avenue to work with. Of course Palpatine genuinely likes Tarkin so Krennic is basically screwed. But he has some hope a chance to maintain direct control over his baby even if it means following Tarkin’s orders. So...Vader isnt saying that Krennic is in charge of the Death Star. Hes saying Krennic is in charge of the whole *project*....which means that if anything goes wrong Galen Ersos asyetunknown sabotage for example it wont be Tarkins or Vaders heads that roll for Palpatine. Its Krennics project its *his* responsibility its his ass on the line. Krennic is just spinning it in a way thats positive as far as hes concerned because its all about his own prestige. Hes basically the Galactic Empire equivalent of a tonedeaf corporate executive hearing only the good news. Vader is just darkly amused enough to let it slide gives him a little warning and goes off on his own business. As far as the Imperial hierarchy everyone at that high level knows Vader serves the Emperor and speaks with his authority especially where urgent military matters are concerned. He doesnt answer to Tarkin but for the duration of Tarkins Death Star operations hes content to just follow Tarkins lead they have mutual respect and a degree of trust theyre just not especially fond of each other. Another reason why Vader gives no damns about Krennics ambition Vader knows Tarkin will quickly end up in charge anyway no matter how it specifically plays out. Krennic is a Project Director...Tarkin is an actual military officer with political authority. This isnt the contest Krennic thinks it is. Vader starts murdering one of Tarkins direct reports on Tarkins own battle station right in front of him. He stops when asked but doing it in the first place says a lot when it was Tarkins command not his. Vader was not subservient to Tarkin. Both reported to the Emperor. Tarkin was in charge of the Death Star. Vader was basically the Emperors personal representative and fixer so yes he could do something to fix Krennics authority or he could just murder Krennic if he felt like it. Remember this is a dictatorship. Power is how many steps you are from the Emperor and how in favor with him you are. Vader was one step away and very close to the Emperor. becuase hes grasping at straws. Vader exists basically outside the normal channels. the boundaries of his authority are vague but extensive. Its also worth listening to what specifically he says *So Im in command? Youll speak to the Emperor about...* Krennic thinks/hopes Vader will ask the Emperor to wade in and explicitly support him as project Director. its not really probable though. Krennic is just *desperate*. The project he has worked on for nearly 15 years the one that was going to propel him to the highest echelons of the imperial hierarchy has been hijacked by a rivail who seems set to take all the credit and power form him. Has been summoned to a meeting with Vader pulled away from the urgent work chasing the rebels and its clear the Darth is less than impressed with him. Hes told point blank that as far as the wider galaxy is concerned the prize project hes staked his career on doesnt exist. His primary goal is to retain the prestiege of being the man who built the death star *especially* with the Emperor. He both asks Vader to arrange him a meeting with the Emperor so he can have his name associated with the project then later to speak to the Emperor on his behalf. When vader tells him to go sort his mess out and make sure theirs not any flaws in the death star design his first thoughts are the realisation that *hes not being taken off the project* and thus his hopes of advancement are still alive. he seeks to clarify that with his question about speaking to the emperor before vader shuts that down. Vader was subservient to Tarkin as Sith Lords they always stand above al civil and military ranks Tarkin is kinda an exception and forms a triumverate with Vader and Palps allthough if Vader would decide to kill Tarkin just like that he could do that he would anger Palpatine with it but besides the usual punishments torture severing his mechanical limbs and so onyou know the drill nothing would happen to Vaders standing or connection to Palpatine It’s a very common feature of dictatorships to maintain fuzzy or overlapping authority. While that may sound like a contradiction authoritarian regimes are often more concerned about internal opposition than external threats. To prevent the rise of rival power blocs dictators frequently create ministries departments and special units with leaders who possess independent authority but report directly to the dictator. This prevents coalitions from forming among subordinates. A great example of this can be found in Nazi Germany as detailed in *The Wages of Destruction.* The book examines the Nazi economy and shows how deeply inefficient it was in part because authority was fragmented among numerous subordinate leaders. Each believed they answered directly to the center rather than operating within a clearly defined chain of command. Tooze Adam. *The Wages of Destruction The Making and Breaking of the Nazi Economy.* New York Viking 2007. Tarkin is more of an equal and likely someone Vader has some respect for. I wouldnt conflate Vader listening to him once with him being subservient. Vader Anakin too respects Tarkin to a degree and vice versa but he does not answer to Tarkin unless the Emperor says to. Its similar to corporate and military politics where you will be expected to create vast and impressive results and even if you succeed then theres a good chance the higher ups well have someone else will just come in and take over often ignorant of your hard efforts. Theyll even give you lame excuses or only focus on even minor negative aspects how about you to basically not give you much credit if any. I think it was just annoying him that he worked his ass off to produce the death star and he didnt even get a pat in the back. Tarkin just took over and basically got a lot of the glory. Right up until he blew up later on. Darth Vader has a nebulous position within the Empire at that moment. Hes tentatively subservient to Tarkin on the Death Star when Tarkin has command but that authority over Vader is limited. Vader answers to the Emperor alone and is one of few people who has his ear. Tarkin couldnt punish Vader in anyway and cant boss him around in other contexts. If Vader disregarded Tarkin then its on the Emperor to do something. The higher echelons of the Empire know that Vader is a powerful Sith Lord but they dont know that the Emperor is also beside maybe Tarkin. They dont understand why the Emperor likes this guy. They see him as an outsider whos been granted vague power over them. Where Vader fits in the grand picture and what exact authority he has is confusing and Palpatine likes it that way. Tarkin has just told Krennic that hes taking command of the Death Star a position he wants. Krennic knows the Death Star delays and Galens treason have lost him favor with the Emperor and that hes on the ropes. Vader is the only powerful person he knows of that has the Emperors favor who could circumvent Tarkin and put in a good word from him. Hes desperate. It was never supposed to be a likely play. Post 3 [Back to the Future] OK seriously why was everyone confusing Martys puffer west with a life preserver? Author WirrkopfPPost Text They were in 1955 Puffer Jackets were invented in 1922 and Puffer Wests were around since the 1930s. Why was Wests can be Orange such a crazy difficult concept for the people in the 50s to wrap their head around? **Reminders for Commenters** * All responses must be A sincere B polite and C strictly watsonian in nature. If watsonian or doylist is new to you please review the full rules . * No edition wars or gripings about creators/owners of works. Doylist griping about Star Wars in particular is subject to **permanent ban on first offense**. * We are not here to discuss or complain about the real world. * Questions about who would prevail in a conflict/competition not just combat fit better on r/whowouldwin. Questions about very openended hypotheticals fit better on r/whatiffiction. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Its more about style. I dont think people are entirely aware of all inventions but even if they were its a funny question to ask even if you know hes not wearing such an item. I might jokingly say a friend wearing all yellow looks like a banana but they dont exactly look like a banana. Its just contrasting the styles at the time and how they can be silly from one era to the next and the different impressions they give. Its not just orange. Its a bright orange sleeveless vest made of artificial fibres clearly padded and inflated with air pockets. In the 1980s Or 2020s it would be a perfectly normal choice of a padded winter jacket made of waterproof materials only made a little odd by the contradiction of a winter jacket without sleeves. But in the 1950s no one would wear a padded nylon jacket like that as regular clothes so they think its a life jacket. I have always assumed that it was a meta joke within the 80s as in contemporary 80s style amongst the youths included those type of vests and the older generation made fun of it and thought it was dumb only because the youth are doing it and old people hate youths so the joke here is that in the 1950s the people who would be the old people in the 80s already thought the vest was dumb regardless of real truths or fashion trends. Bright orange was simply not a normal color to be wearing and puffer vests may have existed but also were not normal casual clothing to be walking around in when it wasnt freezing cold out. the more important question is why are you saying west instead of vest? Because even though they were invented back then they werent used as casual jackets until the 80s. Typically puffer jackets or vests were worn UNDER another coat as an extra layer of thermal protection. Not on top of your street clothing. We had them in the 70s when I was young but they were always covered by a larger coat. That was their purpose to offer extra warmth. So a cafe owner likely wouldnt have seen one on the outside. And they wouldnt typically have been orange for the same reason. Most orange jackets anoraks wind breakers etc. in that era were designed to be seen in poor weather conditions or in the woods to avoid being shot by hunters. It was quite abnormal to see orange outer jackets or any bright primary color even on girls. Combine those elements and it would look exceedingly weird to anyone in the 1950s. Why did you say west every time instead of vest? Because that color orange was used and still is on life preservers and wasnt really popular for anything else in the 50s.... 80s fashion with its loud colors would seem crazy to 50s teens.... Go look at a fashion show at what crazy things people are wearing today or what the average celebrity is wearing on the red carpet. You might even see those clothes on people making a statement in the big city. Wear that in small conservative town today youll get a lot of comments about you looking like a ... whatever. 10 years later it might have caught on and even in small towns people are wearing it. Theres a Coast Guard reference in one of the greatest movies of all time and you want to take that from us? [removed] Ive heard this joke being made unironically within the past year so Id say it transcends time. Post 4 [Dc] who gave the guardians of oa the authority to make the lantern corps Like from reading I’ve done it seems like the guardians just decided one day we control space law now so you have to obey” but like seemingly this was there own decision so if a green lantern comes to my planet and demands my people give up our Newley made hyper dimensional sword we just made why do we have to listen to them from our perspective this guy came to our planet and is trying to rob us or what about the Masicre of sector 666 they got off Scott free **Reminders for Commenters** * All responses must be A sincere B polite and C strictly watsonian in nature. If watsonian or doylist is new to you please review the full rules . * No edition wars or gripings about creators/owners of works. Doylist griping about Star Wars in particular is subject to **permanent ban on first offense**. * We are not here to discuss or complain about the real world. * Questions about who would prevail in a conflict/competition not just combat fit better on r/whowouldwin. Questions about very openended hypotheticals fit better on r/whatiffiction. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* What makes you think they asked for anyone elses opinions? The Guardians of the Universe were probably the first intelligent species to exist. They eventually felt it was their responsibility to shepherd the rest of creation through troubles partly out of guilt for some of the things they were actually responsible for. Krona was one of them before they took up the role of Guardians go ahead and look him up. Tldr hes done some bad things. They have certainly made some mistakes along the way. I cant imagine being immortal and not making at least one mistake every few thousand years. The Manhunters being an obvious one. Volthoom probably wasnt a good idea but he didnt start off bad. Part of the problem you might be having is that you think theyre really interested in your species wellbeing. For the part they are but only in the context of it serving the greater good of an entire universe not just your cozy village. Theyre definitely big picture oriented and theyre looking down at the rest of us from pretty high up. When youre that high up you miss some of the details. They usually mean well and some of them are actually compassionate. But their priorities are higher than our individual morals. Bottom line they didnt ask anyone for permission. As far as disobeying the orders of a patrolling Green Lantern officer nobody says you have to do what they say but theyre generally pretty good about cooperating with your planetlevel laws and govts. A lot of them will try to reason things out maybe giving you context for why a dimensionalripping sword is a bad idea. Youre free to disagree with them but dont be surprised if they come prepared for a fight. Theyre the oldest sentient species in the universe. Like in the animated movies GL Corps was created after Manhunters went wild and the dominators started waging war. And Guardians contact other goverments like United Planets. For world authority Lantern would propably explain that whoever you would have to be taken away is super dangerous and would explain it to planet rulers. If not then they would take it away. Its like giving a pack of matches to a kid or worse a gun. You could try to exile him but who knows how it would work. Hal Jordan was attacked by russian and chinese forces for quite a while. The Guardians gave themselves permission and the way they enforce it was by creating the most powerful weapon in the universe in the Lantern Rings. Normally most species dont mind because the GLs are focused on things like keeping the planets under their care from exploding and dont really interfere with the internal politics of their constitiens. They did which is part of the problem. As the oldest sentient species in the cosmos and the pioneers of harnessing the emotional spectrum they appointed themselves the guardians of the universe. They see themselves as the obvious stewards of creation. The paternalism and arrogance behind that choice and its ramifications are a recurring theme in the series they think they know best and it tends to become everyone elses problem. Post 5 [DAYS GONE]Dunno where to ask this but im playing days gone and I was wondering why do zombies need nests to sleep i didnt know they hibernate together as well as a big group Author ExactCap3059 **Reminders for Commenters** * All responses must be A sincere B polite and C strictly watsonian in nature. If watsonian or doylist is new to you please review the full rules . * No edition wars or gripings about creators/owners of works. Doylist griping about Star Wars in particular is subject to **permanent ban on first offense**. * We are not here to discuss or complain about the real world. * Questions about who would prevail in a conflict/competition not just combat fit better on r/whowouldwin. Questions about very openended hypotheticals fit better on r/whatiffiction. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Id recommend finishing the game first asking for big spoilers here Freakers are alive. They have been infected with a virus that caused a mutation that makes them feral. They need to eat and sleep. Freakers are not zombies they are infected living g humans. They need to eat drink and need to stay warm. Nests keep them warm. FINISH THE GAME! Christ almighty above why would you ask a question thats very clearly explained in the game? Post 6 [Marvel Comics] Danny Rand grew up in KunLun since a young age. Does he speak English with a Chinese Accent? Do people think hes being racist with his accent until they learn he was raised in China most of his life? **Reminders for Commenters** * All responses must be A sincere B polite and C strictly watsonian in nature. If watsonian or doylist is new to you please review the full rules . * No edition wars or gripings about creators/owners of works. Doylist griping about Star Wars in particular is subject to **permanent ban on first offense**. * We are not here to discuss or complain about the real world. * Questions about who would prevail in a conflict/competition not just combat fit better on r/whowouldwin. Questions about very openended hypotheticals fit better on r/whatiffiction. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* He was 9 when he went to KunLun old enough to have a set accent. He can probably speak Chinese without a New York accent and could probably do a KunLun accent in English if he wanted to but it would be something hed do intentionally and not something that comes out against his will. Its worth noting that Kun Lun is mostly populated by the descendants of extraterrestrials. Also when the city is in sync with this dimension its in Tibet. Nobody has ever remarked upon the accent of 616 Danny Rand when he was speaking in English suggesting that it is not significantly different from an American accent Post 7 [Halo] How does the court interpret the Mortal Dictata Act and other laws now that sapient alien species are widely known? The UN Morta Dictata Act was passed before the discovery of the Covenant Empire. It explicitly bans full human cloning. https//www.halopedia.org/UN\_Colonial\_Mortal\_Dictata#\~text=The%20Mortal%20Dictata%20are%20aus%20from%20cloning%20entire%20humans. I think most laws uses terms like person or personhood instead of human in their text probably so that lawyers and the court can reinterpret this in the future. I have heard that most laws are purposely made vague to close down tricks or loopholes or when things get outdated and other things get more fashionable. But the MD Act explicitly says human instead of person in its laws. Can the court still use it to retroactively apply it to Aliens? Or is that a big legal loophole for anyone in UNSC space to starting flash cloning Unggoy or Sanghellis? **Reminders for Commenters** * All responses must be A sincere B polite and C strictly watsonian in nature. If watsonian or doylist is new to you please review the full rules . * No edition wars or gripings about creators/owners of works. Doylist griping about Star Wars in particular is subject to **permanent ban on first offense**. * We are not here to discuss or complain about the real world. * Questions about who would prevail in a conflict/competition not just combat fit better on r/whowouldwin. Questions about very openended hypotheticals fit better on r/whatiffiction. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* You may seek out the experts on /r/legaladviceofftopic. It seems like the Morta Dictata act is designed to create protections for abhumans or posthumans that will inevitably develop now that humanity is multiplanetary. The Morta Dictata does not mention anything about nonhuman persons and that matter would have to be clarified with further legislation. This is something that a UEG court would have to decide. Under a strict reading the Mortal Dictata act applies to humans and only humans and any nonhuman species would not be protected. That said it’s entirely possible for a court to rule that the intent was to protect sapient species writ large and extend the protections to cover nonhumans. This would of course raise bigger questions with regard to the creation of AI systems but that’s another conversation. Post 8 [Star Trek] In the Klingon Romulan or Cardassian empires were there any members of subjugated species that were members of the military or government administrators in equal standing to the dominant species? I dont mean subjugated races working as local administrators or security forces on their own planets and subservient to the dominant race but rather working offworld with equal or greater rank to that of members of the dominant race. For example a Bajoran infantry squad commander leading Cardassians fighting Maquis or a subjugated race captain of a Klingon or Romulan starship in one of their wars against each other. **Reminders for Commenters** * All responses must be A sincere B polite and C strictly watsonian in nature. If watsonian or doylist is new to you please review the full rules . * No edition wars or gripings about creators/owners of works. Doylist griping about Star Wars in particular is subject to **permanent ban on first offense**. * We are not here to discuss or complain about the real world. * Questions about who would prevail in a conflict/competition not just combat fit better on r/whowouldwin. Questions about very openended hypotheticals fit better on r/whatiffiction. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Given how shitty the Romulans treated the Remans Id argue the Romulans are probably not. Then again they do have Sela even if shes half Romulan. But that might be the crucial issue she is after all *half* Romulan and thats what matters. Like maybe even she was limited in how far she could advance because of her Human blood but she rose as far as she could. Cardassians? No their government barely trusted their own population forget about anyone from another species. At best they tolerated the occasional liaison with other governments like Sisko helping to catch Tom Riker. Klingons? Unlikely. Subject worlds were governed by an Imperial Overseer and if the population behaved themselves they would eventually be awarded a better status within the Empire their planet generally free to govern itself as long it kept paying its levies and taxes. Individual results may vary... But letting that subject people become legitimate leaders in the Empire? Romulans? Less likely they tolerate outsiders even less than the Cardassians and are just as if not moreso suspicious of their own people. The only bare exception seems to the Reman shock troops led by Shinzon who was still not trusted by the Romulan *government*. The only allies he had were in the Navy and they only tolerated him because he was supposed to lay waste to the Federation core worlds. When you start allowing this you get rebellions None have ever been shown so we have to assume that subject species are not given the opportunity to have equal footing. Even Shinzon and his Reman army were used as expendable soldiers to fight battles the Romulans didnt want to fight. However it should be mentioned that Shinzon was elevated to become leader of the Romulan Star Empire in a coup led by the Romulan Star Navy. Although Shinzon is technically human. Well to go down the list... Klingons No however cases could be made and we do see in Star Trek Online they are allowing other races to take command of their ships. Hell their ambassador to the Federation is a Gorn. Still remember Klingons will have no issue taking commands from a human if they have shown themselves to be ready for battle and to take command. Case in point the crew of the Klingon ship Riker was on pretty much had no issue taking orders from him. Romulan Well in STO we have the Romulan Republic and they have no issue with Remans being part of the Republic. That said the main Romulan Empire? You are a Romulan or you are not. But well we do see Ensign DeSeve who defected to the Romulan Empire in a Romulan Uniform it was said it was an enlisted uniform but theres a chance he may have gotten to lead troops or the like. Cardassians Oh no... Remember that the Cardassians or at least the higher ups that we see have it in their heads that they are the race to lead the Alpha and Beta Quadrants to greatness. Oh sure they will put up with *working* with a NonCardassian more so if said person is doing a job they dont want to do. Odo pretty much became Chief of Security under the Cardassians when they ran Terok Nor. Also remember its shown that Gul Dukat really didnt trust him as his counterinsurgency program kept him trapped in his office. So in the end? Yeah maybe you could have some sort of post or rank in the Cardassian Government as a nonCardassian. But chances are they are not going to trust you at all. The Romulan empire were allied with the Garidians who were allowed to operate their own ships at the least. Post 9 [Asterix the Gaul] This Village has a magic potion that can hold back the full might of Rome with like 3 soldiers? Why the hell arent we using this to push them out of Gaul?! So my home village tried to fight back against some Roman Invaders and long story short my home village doesnt exist anymore and Im one of a few refugees staying in the Indomitable Village and like I thought this place was secure because they have really well trained soldiers or strategic positioning. Nope! They got a godsdamned magic potion that turns whoever drinks it into an unstoppable fighting force. And theyre just...sitting on their Laurels and letting Rome run rough shot over Gaul? This is an advantage we should press! Why arent we? Why arent they?! **Reminders for Commenters** * All responses must be A sincere B polite and C strictly watsonian in nature. If watsonian or doylist is new to you please review the full rules . * No edition wars or gripings about creators/owners of works. Doylist griping about Star Wars in particular is subject to **permanent ban on first offense**. * We are not here to discuss or complain about the real world. * Questions about who would prevail in a conflict/competition not just combat fit better on r/whowouldwin. Questions about very openended hypotheticals fit better on r/whatiffiction. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Because Getafixs magic potion is limited logistically speaking and distribution risks the Romans getting a hold of it through ambush or subterfuge something they were temporarily successful with several times. Also Vitalstatistix doesnt seem to be the most ambitious chieftain and those Gauls seem to start a fight with themselves every other day making coordination a bit of a stretch. 1. Druidical secrets can only be passed orally. The potion formula is INCREDIBLY dangerous if its not prepared EXACTLY right. So a formula that needs to be prepared just so and transmitted in a way that cant be written down is asking for trouble. 2. In the early days Getafix made potion freely available. It took all of a day before the villagers started abusing it for mundane tasks and pranks AND began fighting each other for control of it. They immediately proved they couldnt be trusted with that kind of power in an unlimited capacity. 3. The absolute most crucial final ingredient in the magic potion appears to be a drop from the previous batch. It may not be possible to draft the potion in mass quantities regularly. 4. Getafix DOES happily provide the potion to people in need including slaves Britons Sarmatians and so forth. Its possible they would want to keep a tight control over the potion so that power doesnt fall to the hands of the wrong people like giving nukes to everyone. And then theres only so much they can do with their limit numbers Possibly limited production and making sure that a single potion doesnt fall into Roman hands. Its a common trend that sooner or later the enemy will reverseengineer the defenders weapons and the security issues become bigger. Easier to maintain secrecy if youre controlling a small territory. Also IIRC the potion maker resides in the village. The Romans might choose to get rid of him and he needs protecting. If the Romans are pushed out of Gaul entirely that means there are no Romans we get to beat up as a village. You cant just let activities everyone bonds over disappear you know? In my opinion If they go all out they will absolutely attract the wrong kind of attention. Right now its toeing the line between ridiculous myth and expected resistance but if Rome truly sees Gaul as a threat itll be their eventual undoing Because they are not Gaul citizens they are members of their sept and village. Sure the other chiefs could ask for them to make this happen. And if they did then by honor and recognition of dependence then this sept would gain dominance the others would need to acknowledge Vitalstatistix as a chiefofchiefs and neither they nor he actually wants this. It would bring about much of what they loathe about Roman occupation except without even the recourse of their honor to mitigate it. Or if you will I think they genuinely arent considering it because their loyalties and group identities are much more local both the villagers and the other Gaul septs. Well... a lot of the villages in Gaul are pretty content being Romanoccupied. After all Romans gave us the aqueduct... sanitation... roads decent wine baths cheese education... Simple you misunderstand the conflict. The village isnt really interested in driving the Romans out of Gaul they simply refuse to swear fealty to Caesar and the Roman legions try and fail to subdue them. A political resolution is possible but its the Romans who have to make the first move and accept they cant control all of Gaul. The neighbouring villages have already been conquered and the gauls already have their own village to live in. Why would them want to push the romans out? the village doesnt mind the romans. their victory is so certain its become a game for them people complain when they dont attack. The magic potion isnt a tool for conquest. Nor a thing to wage war even if it was a righteous one. The gauls fought under vercingetorix and caesar beat him in battle. Thats all. Asterix village is the only one simply saying ok you conquered all gallia but this village is outside roman territory. Then caesar put soldiers to try to conquer the village but its mostly for show And the village only fights romans for sport. In addition to what others have said in one of the books I forget which they make a point of saying that the potion makes you very very strong but NOT invulnerable. Given the logistics issues prohibiting fielding mass amounts of potion equipped soldiers the few you could deploy at once would get cut to ribbons if they went head to head against a full Roman army in a pitched battle. Don’t forget the time the Romans sent a legion of women… Well it had me looking up the source material and now I know what the hell Mark was talking about in that episode of *Peep Show.* Edit all these years with that show on repeat Ive been thinking it was some kind of history pun I was too uneducated to understand. Post 10 [Marvel] Which metal is stronger Vibranium or Adamantium? Which metal is stronger and more durable? If you had weapons would you rather they be made from vibranium or adamantium? **Reminders for Commenters** * All responses must be A sincere B polite and C strictly watsonian in nature. If watsonian or doylist is new to you please review the full rules . * No edition wars or gripings about creators/owners of works. Doylist griping about Star Wars in particular is subject to **permanent ban on first offense**. * We are not here to discuss or complain about the real world. * Questions about who would prevail in a conflict/competition not just combat fit better on r/whowouldwin. Questions about very openended hypotheticals fit better on r/whatiffiction. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Adamantium. Vibranium is strong but enough kinetic force inflicted on it will cause it to break. That isnt the case with Adamantium. Once it has hardened nothing short of a reality bender is going to break it. Adamantium is technically more durable. Vibranium on the other hand has the power to store and release energy which means that it will store not transmit physical impact and will not heat up. Up until that is it reaches its maximum storage capacity after which it becomes vulnerable. And might explode. Adamantium has the power Vibranium has the hax. Adamantium wont break but its just a heavy metal. So its good for armor and swords. Vibranium is lighter and can absorb/release kenetic energy making it a better fit for something like Caps shield. As has been mentioned adamantium is typically stronger. That said a very specific vibranium and steel alloy is stronger this is actually what Captain America’s shield is made of in the comics though the actual composition was achieved accidentally and have thus far it has been unable to be duplicated. Attempts to do so are actually what produced adamantium in the first place. There is also a distinct type of vibranium known as Antarctic vibranium. This vibranium has the unusual characteristic of destroying other metals in its vicinity including adamantium. It’s not technically stronger but if you need to break adamantium it’s your best bet though it will destroy any other metal nearby as well. Adamantium. Pure strength admantium versatility vibranium. Really the two should be used for different purposes some weapons/armor will work better with one or the other really depends what you are trying to accomplish. Antarctic vibranium is stronger because it melts every metal including adamantium. Adamantium is way stronger than Vibranium due to once Adamantium hardens it is indestructible while Vibranium can absorb kinetic energy immense force can destroy it. Vibranium unless I have really powerful strength superpower. Reason When on defence if hit is strong enough to break Vibranium it is enough to break me because hit into adamantium will be directly transferred into the one holding it in this case me. So if I dont have superpowers strong enough hit will render me uncapable to fight either way and Vibranium will be able to handle much stronger hits than me. I havent seen it mentioned here but if I recall correctly Vibranium seems to exhibit a very high affinity for magic whereas Adamantium does not—or its not nearly as high. In the comics Doom used magicinfused Vibranium to great effect. It seems that its good at absorbing more than just kinetic energy. On top of that as others have pointed out Vibranium has its own special property for which it is named it can absorb almost *any* kinetic energy imparted on it. This makes it act how we would want an idealized shield to act. We dont care about the damage to the shield as much as we care about how safe the thing holding it is. A weak shield is only bad because it becomes useless to us as a shield very quickly. If a shield could absorb all energy you could conceivably protect yourself from anything. You could make a suit out of it and fly at mach 4 and come to a halt in a second without dying. If you use it like the Wakandans do you could make it able to absorb and reemit the energy elsewhere. If it can absorb energy perfectly then your response with it would in theory be of the same caliber. It scales with the threat. Learn some magic? Now its nigh unbeatable Id say. Plus it should be completely and perfectly invisible to EMFs. A crosssectional footprint might be detected behind you but that could be fixed by reemiting the EMF behind you. It could also charge as you walk. There *are* different versions of Vibranium but seeing as there is mostly only one Adamantium I still think Vibranium has a good case going for it. I would take **Vibranium**. *I also dont see why on a molecular level it wouldnt perfectly absorb heat too thus allowing you to charge it perfectly with your body heat allowing your body to become perfectly efficient but anyway...* Post 11 [The Boys] How did the deep even get into the 7? Theres nothing impressive about him Author Ghxst_C **Reminders for Commenters** * All responses must be A sincere B polite and C strictly watsonian in nature. If watsonian or doylist is new to you please review the full rules . * No edition wars or gripings about creators/owners of works. Doylist griping about Star Wars in particular is subject to **permanent ban on first offense**. * We are not here to discuss or complain about the real world. * Questions about who would prevail in a conflict/competition not just combat fit better on r/whowouldwin. Questions about very openended hypotheticals fit better on r/whatiffiction. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Surviving at the bottom of the Mariana Trench is a huge feat. Also he can control every sea creature out there and stay underwater indefinitely. The only person who can hold a candle to him in the water is Homelander and even then thats an unknown. The Seven were chosen as a marketing gimmick in order to appeal to specific demographics. It is likely that the Deep was chosen specifically to cater to demographics who are about environmentalism and oceanic ecosystems. You need a water guy… it’s just the way it is. What bigtime Super team lacks a water guy? He is called out as a diversity hire in season 1. Its not totally clear what this means but his teammates do appear to agree that he doesnt deserve to be on the team on his own merits. The 7 are just a corporate product. Entertainment and merchandise. The execs must have thought he served some sort of useful role. Attractive maybe to people who dont know him. He was high ranked at the supe University in Gen V he is shown as one of their tabletopping alumni. Hes clearly strong and good at hand to hand combat which wouldve helped his rating and he is a corporate shill which also helps. From there top ranked students have the best prospects on where to go and deep likely got lucky with an opening for the 7 Nothing in what regard? Sure hes Nothing compared to Homelander but neither is anyone else. Theres no cohesion in the power levels of the team. Its John then Maeve then everyone else fighting for the bottom 5 spots. Noir Starlight ATrain Translucent and Deep are all pretty relative in raw ability other than ATrain without heart problems he is significantly faster which is a huge edge. Deep is decently strong and durability to the point even when unconscious there is no conventional way to quickly kill him. But even if we say he is the weakest which may not be to true as as he has thrown hands with a decent number of the lower members and while not as durable as Translucent presumably he is definitely stronger the Seven is a marketing team before they are a superhero team. The Deep corners an entire market it terms of water themed locations ocean based events aquariums he can preach a pro environmental message and as has been mentioned he is very popular with the demographic of young women. So he can stay in so long as that remains profitable. He can control all sealife super strength super durability and is easily manipulated. Plus his charism doesnt hurt. The 7 is all marketing and Starlight explained in season 1 that the Deep had multiple successful movies. She had a crush on him from those movies so he can act. Water based problems dont come up super often but having a water guy is helpful when they do. Plus in a group of egotistical powerful people you need one guy that cant say no to a shit job If the seven were actually used for anything more than marketing the Deeps powers are the most useful. The deep is actually pretty strong in comparison to other supes it’s just that he’s an idiot. Which makes him perfect to be put in the public eye for Vought’s purposes. Strong and interesting enough for the masses to be entertained and what to buy merchandise but too dumb to fuck it up well until the boys came along and started turning the world upside You’re wrong and kind of missing the point. His abilities have let him be uniquely useful multiple times but that’s not the point. The point is marketability. It’s the main reason they chose starlight over other stronger heroes. A environmentally conscious dude bro is marketable. Not marketable enough that they wouldn’t get rid of him at the first sign of trouble but they hired him when they had a good thing going. Pretty privilege the Seven are a team made by committee he was there to appeal to environmentalists and to sell their nonenvironmentally friendly products under a greenwashed guise. We see a lot of those ads theyre very targeted. Isnt he popular with certain demographics in the boys universe? I think thats why they keep him in. Its all based on analytics Hes explicitly placed on the team to round it out and play second fiddle to the important ones or one. It has nothing to do with how effective he actually is. Post 12 [Star Wars] Do anti Jedi/Sith weapons exist? Author MarshyBarss **Reminders for Commenters** * All responses must be A sincere B polite and C strictly watsonian in nature. If watsonian or doylist is new to you please review the full rules . * No edition wars or gripings about creators/owners of works. Doylist griping about Star Wars in particular is subject to **permanent ban on first offense**. * We are not here to discuss or complain about the real world. * Questions about who would prevail in a conflict/competition not just combat fit better on r/whowouldwin. Questions about very openended hypotheticals fit better on r/whatiffiction. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Yes. The Mandelorians are kitted out with them. Jedi can deal with anything but its HARDER for them to deal with things like flamethrowers and slug weapons. As in anything that counter the use of the Force? Ysalamiri lizards nullify the Force in a small area around them. The Yuuzhan Vong cant be sensed through the Force. Atton says that strong emotions can disrupt a Jedis concentration when they try to read your mind. HK suggests collateral damage such as their apprentice and corroding their will to mess with their minds. If you mean conventional weaponry HK47 talks with the Exile Meetra after gaining enough influence about how to fight Force sensitives included but not limited to gas mines magnetic rockets and sonic weapons. Depends on what you mean by Anti Force user if you mean someone using a lightsaber you could argue that Dookus Lightsaber to be one of those since it was made to screw with Jedis way of blocking other lightsabers Jango Fett had a flamethrower something that a lightsaber cant stop A slugthrower would probably be too fast and wide for a lightsaber to stop and even then the molten metal would hit the user nonetheless Beskar can resist lightsaber attacks quite reliably However the problem with fighting Force users is that they are quite literally using a magic source that can basically predict the future and fuck with your aim/ basically lower the probability of your attacks hitting The best way to deal with force users is to use overwhelming firepower/tactics stuff that makes so even if you need to hit a 20 in a D20 just by throwing so many attacks that you ignore the force eventually But its like saying To kill a jedi use a nuke it will do the job but its quite a lot of force Depends what you mean by antiJedi/Sith weapons. Are there weapons that are more useful against them than regular blasters that would be employed when the opponent knows theyre going to face Force users and is familiar with their powers? Absolutely. Any area of effect weapon is high on that list there are shotgunequivalent blasters and slugthrowers there are flamethrowers/incendiaries explosives and sonics all of which cant be reliably stopped by a lightsaber blade. Pavisestyle combinations of shields and blasters held by troops working in concert make it harder for a Force user to hit their foes with deflected blaster fire. In one of the canon Thrawn books Vader even ends up immobilized by a sort of foam substance that hardened around him keeping him from moving. Beskar and cortosis are materials that can resist lightsaber blades and can be forged into armor or weapons. If you mean Force negating weapons... well no but sort of yes. Im not as familiar with current canon outside of the films/shows and Thrawn novels but in Legends the ysalamiri are a lizardlike creature that can be carried on nutrient frames and project a bubble around themselves that negates Force powers. That would protect someone from being sensed or influenced through the Force keep them safe from Force lightning or telekinesis directed at them though one can always throw something from outside the bubble into it momentum is still a thing. Then there are the biodevices used by the Yuuzhan Vong which like their creators were stripped of their connection to the Force long ago thus making them immune or resistant to most direct attacks via the Force and their weapons and armor were creatures capable of stopping a lightsaber blade. But none of the above are strictly speaking what Id refer to as an antiJedi/Sith weapon or technology largely because its not really created *for the primary purpose* of fighting a Force user. All of those weapons and armor materials are invented and used mostly in other contexts they just so happen to also work better against Force users than normal blasters and armor do. Even the ysalamiri and Vong biots evolved or were designed with their traits for other reasons than to stymie Jedi/Sith. Short answer yes. Long answer depends on if you mean weapons specifically built for killing Forceusers or normal weapons that just happen to be useful. HK47 and similar sources note that certain tactics are more useful for the task slugthrowersphysical bullets can be blocked by a lightsaber but not deflected flamethrowers can only be deflected using the Force poison gas can break their concentration in the Force sonic weapons and mines can prevent closequarters combat with those fancy swords of theirs. Some weapons were not limited to Jedi but were costinefficient in most other circumstances cortosis weapons and ammunition are expensive but can short out lightsabers on contact. Most legitimate antiForcewielder weapons are Sith weapons and artifacts designed specifically to target Forceusers. For instance there were Leviathans Sithspawn who preferentially attacked Forcewielders and interfered with their sensory powers. However they also affected the Sith. Cortosis probably fits best for this niche. A rare and otherwise brittle metal that temporarily shorts out lightsabers upon contact with their blades buying the lightsaber user’s opponent valuable seconds to strike or flee. The Stranger/ !Qimir!&lt wears a cortosis helmet and bracer specifically with Jedi opponents in mind. Next most useful is beskar another metal most commonly used by Mandalorians. It may not be completely lightsaberproof as it visibly heats up with prolonged contact against lightsabers and can be reforged but in quick contact situations it is highly durable against lightsabers blaster fire and mundane damage alike. Mandalorians have also been known to utilize various forms of unconventional weaponry in their many wars including their conflicts with Jedi such as slugthrowers tripwire and flamethrowers. However in a sparring session between exiled Jedi Kanan Jarrus and Mandalorian rebel Sabine Wren the former reminds the latter that the Jedi won those wars so those weapons don’t hold up to the Jedi Order’s superior physical and precognitive feats once the element of surprise is lost. Then of course there’s the Clone Army and Order 66. The Jedi have natural insight against ill intent via the Force but in the case of Order 66 there *was* no ill intent because in canon the clones were chipped leaving them unconscious of the order until it was given and in both continuities they were just following said order without malice. Cortosis is a material that’s both heat resistant enough to withstand a lightsaber and has a special property which short circuits lightsabers. While it’s usually made into armor there were a lot of cortosis swords. it’s not explicitly an anti Jedi/Sith weapon but taking away their primary weapon can be a game changer for example when the Stranger fought those Jedi. Yes. Cortosis and Beskar are the simplest antiForce weapons as they resist energy transfer and can be used to defend against lightsabers and even force lightning to a limited extent. Next are specialized assassin droid designed to overwhelm through sheer volume of attacks. After that are trappers and strategists who find ways to trap a force users in a no win situation. Its difficult and you can never afford to test your luck but many nonforcesensitive beings have hunted force users through the ages. I guess the mandalorian shotgun would count since its really just antilightsaber Mandalorians adapted their battle strategies to fight Jedi with weapons that couldnt be easily countered blitz tactics flamethrowers bombs and clusterstyle weapons that cant simply be dodged or waved away. Their armor specifically withstand lightsabers and just about everything else. Cortosis makes its canon appearance in *The Acolyte* successfully shorting out lightsabers and temporarily rendering them useless. As for tools meant specifically to answer The Force theres nothing in canon. yeah Mandalorian Culture aka The Epitome of badass Normals in Star Wars had weapons to combat the JediSith or any force user Beskar guantlets VambracesWhistling birds Jet Packs Whip cords VibroKnives Weststar Blasters. Ive yet to see Jedi outsmart hundreds sustained fire bullets blasters Yes. Flames rockets explosives slugrounds jetpacks and beskar all are good things to use against jedi. Cortosis shorts out their lightsabers also. If you wanted to fight a jedi best way is to have good armor and a way to avoid their instant death stick then hit them with things they cant reflect or avoid In addition to what I and others mentioned the best counter to the force is to kinda react shoot at the jedi. If a jedi is choking you and youre a good enough shot to headshot them then usually they die and you win or they drop you to hastily pick up their lightsaber and block without reflecting. For force specific attacks its kinda against the will of the force to use it super offensively. Jedi mostly use what the force gives jedi reflexes amd enhanced physical stats as opposed to lightning blasts or crushing heads as those are asking the force or or telling it if youre a dark sider to do something for you Overwhelming numbers and firepower. Tends to work for most things I mean biochips in the brains of their trusted army did the job alright. In Legends there was the arc where Jaina Solo killed her twin brother Jacen Solo/Darth Caedus. She was kitted out with all kinds of armour pieces that were designed to counter lightsabers after she asked Boba Fett to help train her to kill Jacen. The gundei Bounty Hunter who appeared in the original Clone Wars shorts was armed to the teeth with different weapons for combating with a Jedi. Isnt General Grievous an antiJedi weapon? Basically anything like a bolter from warhammer 40000 would absolutely mog a jedi. Face full of shrapnel if they try to deflect them https//starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Slugthrower Slugthrowers. If you throw a piece of metal through hot lightsaber you get something even more dangerous on other side. Also https//starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Flamethrower The allmighty 12 gauge Post 13 [Hannibal] Why didnt Mason Verger kill Hannibal when he was in prison? Even if we were working under the assumption Chilton wouldnt accept bribes or be threatened surly someone with wealth and resources as vast as Vergers could bribe a gaurd or two to slip poison into Lecters food. **Reminders for Commenters** * All responses must be A sincere B polite and C strictly watsonian in nature. If watsonian or doylist is new to you please review the full rules . * No edition wars or gripings about creators/owners of works. Doylist griping about Star Wars in particular is subject to **permanent ban on first offense**. * We are not here to discuss or complain about the real world. * Questions about who would prevail in a conflict/competition not just combat fit better on r/whowouldwin. Questions about very openended hypotheticals fit better on r/whatiffiction. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Verger is such a sociopath that hes almost a parody. The dude literally collects childrens tears to flavor his martinis. I believe he just really really wanted to see Hannibal get eaten by pigs. I think the answer is twofold 1. Theres very limited access to Lecter. I guess thats 5 guards on rotation on his block at the most. Thats very few people for one of them to be bribable capable of killing smart enough to see it through without getting caught and willing to run the risk. Maybe theres just noone that meets the criteria. 2. Verger has terrible crass taste but he does love drama. Just mercing Lecter in prison probably doesnt fit how he imagines his revenge to be. Mason took Hannibal drugging him to make him mutilate himself and then paralyzing him very personally and wanted to kill him in not only an agonizingly brutal way but also get to see it himself live. Post 14 [Deltarune] what if someone didnt just stab the ground while creating a fountain but drag the blade across the ground making it much larger? What would happen? **Reminders for Commenters** * All responses must be A sincere B polite and C strictly watsonian in nature. If watsonian or doylist is new to you please review the full rules . * No edition wars or gripings about creators/owners of works. Doylist griping about Star Wars in particular is subject to **permanent ban on first offense**. * We are not here to discuss or complain about the real world. * Questions about who would prevail in a conflict/competition not just combat fit better on r/whowouldwin. Questions about very openended hypotheticals fit better on r/whatiffiction. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* I doubt anything special would happen. There isnt a literal deposit of darkness physically under the floor that youre opening a hole to. Its probably more about you using your determination to give objects the will to live. Post 15 [Halloween] How did Michael Myers disappear when Laurie was staring right at him? In the first movie when Laurie arrives home from school she sees Michael staring at her in the backyard. The camera cuts away for a split second and hes suddenly gone but Laurie herself never looks away or blinks. How the eff did he just vanish? Was he actually there or was Laurie just being paranoid or something? **Reminders for Commenters** * All responses must be A sincere B polite and C strictly watsonian in nature. If watsonian or doylist is new to you please review the full rules . * No edition wars or gripings about creators/owners of works. Doylist griping about Star Wars in particular is subject to **permanent ban on first offense**. * We are not here to discuss or complain about the real world. * Questions about who would prevail in a conflict/competition not just combat fit better on r/whowouldwin. Questions about very openended hypotheticals fit better on r/whatiffiction. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* I think there is an assumption that she does blink. But the thing about H1 MM is that…we’re just never really told what he is. If he’s human then there’s the funny mental image of him having to scramble to get out of view there’s YT videos parodying this. If he’s some manifestation of evil then people wanna know more about how and why which messes with the mystery when they try and tried to explain it. Occam’s razor is that she blinked or got distracted for long enough for him to run off. A little known fact about movies based around Halloween the day time and space become distorted as all hell. Someone can spend a full minute running and somehow a pursuer will have kept pace with them at a steady walk as those slower steps cover more ground than a sprint. What appears to be a blink of an eye is actually the entire world pausing for a moment to selectively allow those nearby and with bloodlust in their hearts to move while nobody else can. Theres a window that blocks the view from the window and Laurie is looking down at him standing in the laundry lines. A sheet could easily have blown up blocking the view and he walks to his left behind the bush. So to her it looks like he disappeared but he just walked off screen. He is super fast when he wants to be My head cannon was some people can space out/tune out” when they’re confronted with an heavily tense and emotional situation and she wasn’t paying attention to him walking away she kinda snapped back into reality or woke up..or as some call it she blue screened” and rebooted” and Michael was gone. Post 16 [Pokémon] Is an organism similar to Ditto theoretically possible? Could an organism evolve to have Dittos shapeshifting abilities? **Reminders for Commenters** * All responses must be A sincere B polite and C strictly watsonian in nature. If watsonian or doylist is new to you please review the full rules . * No edition wars or gripings about creators/owners of works. Doylist griping about Star Wars in particular is subject to **permanent ban on first offense**. * We are not here to discuss or complain about the real world. * Questions about who would prevail in a conflict/competition not just combat fit better on r/whowouldwin. Questions about very openended hypotheticals fit better on r/whatiffiction. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* In terms of real science no not to the level of Ditto. The closest real world example is probably the Mimic Octopus. Most animals that practice mimicry focus on imitating one species but the Octopus can copy several and switch between them at will. For something like Ditto to exist youd need a colonial organism like a slime mold that could reshape itself. However it wouldnt have bones or muscle. It would be like trying to build something out of jello. Tldr no not really possible. It would probably look a lot more like John carpenter’s The Thing. Octopus. Every pokemon is based on something irl. Post 17 [Jurassic Park] How does the park regularly clear foliage in the dinosaur paddocks so that the guests have a clear view of the dinosaurs? Being on a tropical island with a lot of rainfall there will be a lot of rapid plant growth which if not regularly removed will prevent park guests from getting a clear look at the dinosaurs. If guests have a poor experience at the park due to not seeing any dinosaurs after spending noncoupon day prices guests will stop coming and the park will go bankrupt. However sending landscaping personnel into paddocks of aggressive dinosaurs is very dangerous. How was this handled? **Reminders for Commenters** * All responses must be A sincere B polite and C strictly watsonian in nature. If watsonian or doylist is new to you please review the full rules . * No edition wars or gripings about creators/owners of works. Doylist griping about Star Wars in particular is subject to **permanent ban on first offense**. * We are not here to discuss or complain about the real world. * Questions about who would prevail in a conflict/competition not just combat fit better on r/whowouldwin. Questions about very openended hypotheticals fit better on r/whatiffiction. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* How was this handled? In Jurassic Park it explicitly wasnt handled. If you watch the original movie they take the guided tour in the Jeeps on the tracks ***and never actually see a Dinosaur*** until the park breaks down. All they see is the aforementioned foliage and there was clearly no effort at all to trim it back. The next two movies dont have a functioning park theyre about people illegally going back to the island to get something valuable. Its not until ***Jurassic World 2015*** that we see a fullyfunctioning park and they rely on live shows scheduled feedings and weird futuristic gyrosphere orbs that let people drive close to the more docile species. They seem to have everything handled keeping the dangerous dinosaurs segregated from the herbivores. This is exactly the kind of detail Hammond would overlook preferring to spend his time tormenting the chef about minutiae of the brunch menu or trying to decide on the font for the lunch boxes in the gift shop. I dont know if the book explains any of it but if theyre smart sectioned pens where the sections can be closed from one another after the dinosaur is corralled away from where you want to perform landscaping Id think fake bushes and trees could be arranged to create clear viewing areas where you wouldnt need to go trim them back. Also food and water sources located in those areas to draw them there. Lets say I have a large enclosure to put the TRex in. I would simply divide that one enclosure into two. When the TRex is on one side you can lock it in there and conduct maintenance on the other. They use agent orange. The increased incidents of dino lung cancer help slow them down when they escape. Get this. *They dont.* As both the movie and the book tell us dinosaurs wont just do what the people hope or want. They dont have a schedule. They will appear when they appear and thats it. At the same time Hammond in all his wisdom hasnt thought about such problems thinking everything will just run smoothly because he has all the power and latest technology. Two no shows as he himself said in the film. The only way to *maybe* see those dilophosaurus...es ? and/or the Trex EVERY time would be by cutting down *all the foliage* which will obviously happen*.* This is simply another sign of cutting corners. Post 18 [Parasyte the maxim]why does acid damage them so much when they can quickly repair most other injuries that aren’t immediately fatal? Author grapp **Reminders for Commenters** * All responses must be A sincere B polite and C strictly watsonian in nature. If watsonian or doylist is new to you please review the full rules . * No edition wars or gripings about creators/owners of works. Doylist griping about Star Wars in particular is subject to **permanent ban on first offense**. * We are not here to discuss or complain about the real world. * Questions about who would prevail in a conflict/competition not just combat fit better on r/whowouldwin. Questions about very openended hypotheticals fit better on r/whatiffiction. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Idk about Parasyte but assuming chemistry is chemistry wouldnt it simply be because acids dont stop doing their thing until theyve been removed or otherwise fully reacted? If youre taking damage faster than youre regenerating it and its sustained youre in trouble. Its why acid attacks suck IRL too. They just keep melting and melting. In most settings burns tend to cause permanent damage against regenerators. Fire burns are more common so thats what we typically associate them with but medically it can be caused by ice chemicals and electricity as well. I assume their biology makes them more resistant to alkali burns which would make them more vulnerable to acid burns. In the anime its stated that fire causes Parasyte cells to freak out so Id assume chemical burns cause a stronger version of this as shown during Shimada rampage. Trauma like cutting or tearing pulls cells away from each other which can just be put together again to repair the damage. Acids would dissolve the cell walls and destroy them completely. Post 19 [DC] Is there ever a time when Batman was genuinely scared? Author CraftyPapaya5729 **Reminders for Commenters** * All responses must be A sincere B polite and C strictly watsonian in nature. If watsonian or doylist is new to you please review the full rules . * No edition wars or gripings about creators/owners of works. Doylist griping about Star Wars in particular is subject to **permanent ban on first offense**. * We are not here to discuss or complain about the real world. * Questions about who would prevail in a conflict/competition not just combat fit better on r/whowouldwin. Questions about very openended hypotheticals fit better on r/whatiffiction. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Yes very often. Hes learned to function while hes scared thats different from not experiencing fear. There was this time his parents got shot Umm should I name one time or dozen of times? Joker loves fucking with him and making him scared. Batman is not immune to fear and dont get where you get that idea. One of the reasons he needed to develop anti venom for the Scarecrows fear toxin. Whenever Joker does something Batman is scared as hell. Torturing Jason Todd crippling Barbara Gordon planting bombs in cities etc just from the top of my head. I know at least in *Batman The Animated Series* he was genuinely scared after getting dosed by Scarecrow’s Fear Toxin. But once he was able to inoculate himself against it he was good. First thing batman learned that fear is natural his mental training was for him to be able to function while being scared. I think hes often scared when someones life is in danger In Dark nights metal he was trapped by Barbatos and shown multiple Dark timelines where he was tortured his family dead etc. And then Barbatos shown him JL getting beaten by Dark Knights and Batman given up and then was send to hallucination where he was a grandpa retelling his adventures to a grandchild. In crisis on infinite earth. In every major joker story. In the whole metal saga. I think he was legit scared or at least demoralized during the first Infinite Crisis run with the Antimonitor and he legit admitted that he couldn’t do anything at all to effectively stop him or assist the more superpowered heroes still standing. When he was broken by Deacon Blackfire in The Cult. The fact he was able to be broken so mentally messed him up for a bit. The most obvious is the death of his parents. Besides that he was often scared by the Joker Superman Bane. He is also very annoyed by Deathstroke. His first confrontation with Bane after having his spine broken and rebuilding himself to being at Batman level. He goes on about it how it may all happen again how his body may be left broken all his work for naught and now he may not be able to fix himself. Well there was that one time in a cave when he was a kid I might get the story wrong. Its been awhile. A small girl died because Bruce could not lift a tree or telephone pole. I forget. So Bruces solution was to go on steroids and he was haunted by seeing this girl drown. In the pilot episode of Batman Beyond which is set a few decades after Batman TAS. An aging Batman suffers a heart attack while fighting criminals and helping a kidnap victim. He then collapses to the ground helpless. A thug begins to assault him while hes on the ground mid heart attack. Fearing for his life he reaches for a dropped gun and holds it to the thugs head and proceeds to escape. This moment was one of the only times Bruce was truly afraid. It was not only of death but of losing control of himself. He was at a point of true desperation and he would have been willing to end anothers life for his own gain and violating two of his core principles. Being ready to use that gun even momentarily shook him to his core. He hung up his cape and cowl that night and it was the last time Gotham saw that Batman. He seemed pretty horrified in BTAS when Clayface mimicked his face hes not fearless at all his bit is turning that fear into strength and controlling the sources of his fear to his advantage. the man used to be scared of bats and decided everyone else would be too. Batman is constantly afraid. He hides behind the mask because hes still the same sad little boy who watched his parents bleed out after Zorro. Hes suicidal and pushes himself hoping his next crazy trick will fail and hell be relieved of the burden of existence. The reason why Batman doesnt commit suicide is he knows his parents are in heaven and suicide is a mortal sin. Post 20 [star trek] how are starfleet people so good at figuring out how to use alien tech or future tech so easily? just some examples? like archer and the nx01 crew in the first season. they come across aliens they never encounter before but are able to interact with the alien tech like weapons or computers. in mirror darkly the mirror archer/crew were able to get the uss defiant from 113 years their future up and running. archer knowing how to use daniels temporal observatory in TOS paradise syndrome and all ours yesterday spock uses preserver tech and that sarpeidon technology in TNG you got the contagion episode where picard uses iconian tech booby trap episode picard using promellian technology VOY the crew able to figure out the mobile emitter from the 29th century where they actually make repairs to it when it gets damaged these are just some examples i can think of off the top of my head. what do you think? how do you think starfleet people are so good at figuring out how to use alien tech and future tech so easily? **Reminders for Commenters** * All responses must be A sincere B polite and C strictly watsonian in nature. If watsonian or doylist is new to you please review the full rules . * No edition wars or gripings about creators/owners of works. Doylist griping about Star Wars in particular is subject to **permanent ban on first offense**. * We are not here to discuss or complain about the real world. * Questions about who would prevail in a conflict/competition not just combat fit better on r/whowouldwin. Questions about very openended hypotheticals fit better on r/whatiffiction. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Future tech makes sense its built for easy use by Federation crews from disparate cultures and educational systems so its probably fairly intuitive and easy to use. A future starship is more advanced sure and I doubt the mirrorEnterprise crew really understood how many of the systems fully worked but setting a course and engaging warp is probably very similar in the same way someone with an old 1920s car could probably drive my car after a few false starts. Alien tech is probably a combination of their tricorders assisting and them simply being very well trained dont forget most ships we see are exploration vessels with appropriately trained away teams. Any examples where they are using future Starfleet tech are easily explained anyone whos used windows 95 could easily figure out how to use the latest version it may take them a few hours to figure out all annoying changes that Microsoft has made but they will figure it out this will likely be true well into the future To expand on this anyone who has used windows will likely be able to figure out how to use to basic functions of any GUI in a reason amount of time I assuming GUI are also used by most aliens I would think biggest hurdle would be it being in a different language which the universal translator might just deal with cant remember if does written stuff or just audio Edit these are also trained Starfleet officers there is likely a course at the academy that goes okay over this course will be exploring the 10 most common interface structures there are different away to skin a cat but considering 90 % of species in the galaxy are humaniods that we have enough in common culturely to have diplomatic and personal relationships with there are only going to be so many structures. A thought that stuck with me from a DC animated movie when one character asked how in the *bleep* another was able to fly an alien spacecraft The primary measure of an advanced technology is how intuitive it is to use it.” As long as humans arent starving or at war their main trait as a group is *curiosity*. Theyre children in the stars and when children find a new toy they play with it to figure it out. It might blow up in their face but then they know how not to play with it for the next time. One day the humans will find or invent a power so immense they will destroy themselves with it the thing that keeps me awake at night is a simple thought *and what if they dont?*. The Federations education system and Starfleets training teaches their students problem solving and critical thinking. Considering the point of Star Fleet is to make contact with another planets they might be trained to reverse engineer alien tech. Not really a watsonian answer but the captains logs we are watching are from the universe where everything goes right. We dont get to watch the ones where they failed as they dont exist. I mean practically everyone is a goshdarn genius. Like not even counting the experts they all are the top of their class. speaking of experts Spock accidently made time travel in the first few episodes. Data is a robot and Westly is does things most people couldnt dream off. They all went to college in great part for that specifically. There are times theyve been stumped for awhile but I think its a part of it is the progenitor race which many species descended from and also how tech can build upon itself so it has similarities even if its vastly more advanced. For example the difference between a 16th century Blunderbuss and a modern day automatic firearm is almost 500 years now. While the construction and mechanisms are vastly different the principle of point and pull trigger comes across and when taken apart someone in the 16th century may even figure out why it malfunctioned if need be. They may not be able to reconstruct the whole firearm due to material differences but the concept of Oh this part broke it doesnt push this other thing can we make something that accomplishes the same thing can still be understood. The species thing is a bit more... grasping at straws. As a microcosm and looking at Earths history you can see how vastly different tech has been produced by civilizations separated from one another but at the same time *similar tech* has also been constructed at times. And while inventions can vary greatly theyve also been able to be understood given enough time. So if you take the concept of Humanity and dozens of other species all descended from a progenitor the fact that theyre all humanoid walk upright usually have five digits on each hand etc results in technology that varies yet can still be understood because were similar enough to them. Understanding tech from Species 8472 or Tholians will probably be way more difficult than trying to understand tech from a first meeting with Romulans or Benzites. Post 21 [Inside Out] If Joy had been forgotten entirely would Riley eventually create a new Joy perhaps through therapy or simply live her life from then on dulled to carefree feelings of happiness? Its clear from Inside Out 2 that people get older and less emotional but those emotions remain. Of Joy was truly and complete forgotten in the pit in Inside Out how would that shake out for the rest of Rileys life? **Reminders for Commenters** * All responses must be A sincere B polite and C strictly watsonian in nature. If watsonian or doylist is new to you please review the full rules . * No edition wars or gripings about creators/owners of works. Doylist griping about Star Wars in particular is subject to **permanent ban on first offense**. * We are not here to discuss or complain about the real world. * Questions about who would prevail in a conflict/competition not just combat fit better on r/whowouldwin. Questions about very openended hypotheticals fit better on r/whatiffiction. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Do they ever show Joy actually starting to show symptoms of being forgotten? Otherwise I don’t think she CAN be truly forgotten and disappear just get lost. and maybe struggle to find her place or usefulness again if the other emotions have had to run things for long enough. Or if Joy DID somehow completely disappear maybe it would entail sifting through happy memories or something to remember the essence of her and bring her back. I’m not familiar enough with the neuroscience behind it though to know which is technically more accurate to what’s happening. She would have a diagnosed mental illness probably. Something that makes her unable to feel joy. Is possible Joy could be restored if she went through therapy and medication Post 22 [Star wars] whats the point in storm trooper armor if it doesnt protect against anything? In the films it typically takes only one blaster shot to penetrate their armor. With blasters being the main weapon you would think the armor would protect against it but it doesnt. So whats the point of it if it doesnt do anything? **Reminders for Commenters** * All responses must be A sincere B polite and C strictly watsonian in nature. If watsonian or doylist is new to you please review the full rules . * No edition wars or gripings about creators/owners of works. Doylist griping about Star Wars in particular is subject to **permanent ban on first offense**. * We are not here to discuss or complain about the real world. * Questions about who would prevail in a conflict/competition not just combat fit better on r/whowouldwin. Questions about very openended hypotheticals fit better on r/whatiffiction. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* The armor is light defense against shrapnel/ grenades. It wont save you at point blank but it reduces the lethal area. Furthermore they go down from one blaster bolt but they arent necessarily dead. Some of the troopers assaulting Leias ship actually get up as we see Vader entering. They seem to have passed out from pain but been able to recover with a bit of time or bacta. Filming error or intentional lore? You decide! The same as for body armor worn by soldiers nowadays shrapnel low caliber weapons and ricochet. It also contains some sensor enhancements in the helmet breathing apparatus and some more technology and storage if I remember correctly. I assume its also helpful in melee situations and very useful for crowd control. It could also theoretically protect against thermal imaging though I dont have anything to base that on. Its not realistic to expect body armor to stop high powered weapons such as blasters its simply much easier to focus energy to destroy a specific spot than to protect every spot on a person against such focused energy. Reducing a fatal wound to a survivable one is a pretty legitimate and realistic role for armor to play. Realistically speaking theres not much any man portable armour can do against literal plasma. Ive often seen the Plasteel armour described as being the most cost effective type of armour that can slightly deflect such shots and gave the ones wearing it the chance to survive a straight shot even if it wouldnt be pleasant. My understanding is that it does protect but not fully. It dissipates the power of the shot so its absorbed by the entire body instead of being focused in a single spot. Yes it will still hurt likely enough to be knocked unconscious but youre more likely to walk away from a fullbody shock than you are to a plasma bolt boring through your abdomen. Fewer deaths more injuries. Theory the armour was quite effective during the clone Wars but decades of cost cutting and maybe some outright theft have taken its toll. Letting your own side know who not to shoot at. And look intimidating In legends its good. In Canon it just seems to make fatal injuries incapacitating ones Im thinking that on a space station the armor acts as a space suit protecting the wearer from explosive decompression. Walk up to any soldier and ask them why they bother wearing body armor if a bullet can still penetrate. Point being some protection is better than none. A trooper can and does survive. We see a clone call for a medic and some of the guys on Mimban in Solo are medics. A named character from TCW is a medic. They can and do survive injuries in armor. It’s just that oftentimes it’s not necessary to see them do this onscreen. Otherwise the armors also act as equipment platforms for jetpacks survival kits space packs etc. The armors also acting as protection from the elements like the snowtrooper gear does. A stormtrooper can be deployed anywhere and typically survive a rebel cannot. I have read that the Stormtroopers were ordered to miss to let them escape to track them. I have read Stormtroopers can shoot anything they want they are genetically engineered to shoot. They were ordered to miss. A few thoughts 1. The armor may be very effective against ballistic weapons. Conventional machine guns rifles and other slug throwers may have their impacts be dissipated by the plasticlike armor causing such weapons to go entirely out of favor except among primitive races. 2. It provides protection against stabs explosions fire shrapnel thrown rocks etc better than the cloth uniforms and helmets the Imperial army uses. 3. Many theorize that the many troopers we see shot are not all dead. Later they’ll be taken to receive medical care and a surgical droid will have a far better chance of saving the troopers life if he has only severe burns through the armor not a ragged burned hole where a plasma shot explosively dehydrated a portion of his body. 4. The clone armor was symbolic of the Republic army a tidy force of identical clones. Orderly obedient trustworthy. When the Republic became the Empire maintaining the clean white armor and faceless clone helmet maintained the appearance of the galactic military in the minds of the public. When you face a landing party in gray ships with white enclosed armor you know exactly who is here and what they expect of you. It strikes fear in the rebellious and makes the Empire feel like all one thing as opposed to an army of individuals. If I remember the beginning of episode 4 the storm troopers dont take cover and kill about five rebels for each loss they suffer while the rebels *do* take cover. Sure there are some troopers that go down to being shot straight in the chest but the rebels seem to go down even at near misses. There is an example of stormtrooper armor actually working in the season 2 finale of the Bad Batch. https//youtu.be/z2VDmladD5c at 243 a partisan disguised in stormtrooper armour gets shot in the stomach at close range they are then seen walking away with a large black scorch mark on their armour where they were shot implying that the armour successfully spread out the impact of the blaster shot. Someone more creative than me will have to come up with a watsonian explanation for why possibly the only time stormtrooper armour has worked onscreen was when a rebel was wearing it. If youre wearing a plate carrier and get shot in the chest with a rifle you probably wont die. But you definatley will be knocked on your ass. Same idea. Stormtrooper armour is very good at what it does. What it does is absorb the energy and heat of a blaster bolt and redistribute it across its surface to prevent penetration and death by low grade blasters like the Rebel pistols in use on the Tantive IV. So a Stormtrooper is hit once or twice and crumples but they aren’t dead. They’re immobilised from the absorption of energy and maybe unconscious from the force of impact but quite alive. They might need medical attention but more often than not they’re just fine and can go about their business with bruising but not much worse. Its like a modern bulletproof vest. Its stopping the bullet but the energy of impact has to go somewhere which sucks for the guy wearing it but it sucks a whole lot less than a hole in the chest. Stormtrooper armour as primarily defense against energy weapons does not stand up too well against kinetic attacks as we see on the Forest Moon of Endor. But even then theres a good chance those troopers were unconscious not dead from their encounters with Ewok ambushes. At least until they were eaten How storm troopers are portrayed in the movies is kinda false compared to the expanded lore there meant to be elite best of the best main line troops” there kinda seen as red shirts in the movies The same reason the KKK wears hoods and robes. People are more willing to commit atrocities when anonymous. [removed] It is a scary depersonalizing uniform that looks intimidating to civilians and makes it easier for troopers to dissociate themselves with their humanity in order to better kill peasants without having their emotions get in the way. Think most stormtroopers by the first film are just meant to be a policing force. So bright white armor that protects against regular projectiles and nonlightsaber melee attacks is enough for those purposes. And is more cost effective than making your force invincible when its already the largest in the galaxy. And if some betray you they can be shot by the rest. They may be presented as elites” but that’s probably propaganda except for those that have specialties death troopers” or whatever. You sound as warming as this post. I hear it’s pretty effective against sand. Its better than no armor at all. It MAY save your life. Would you continue to try and fight after being shot once? Even Vader wont execute troopers who didnt continue to fight after being shot. Plus its intimidating and most importantly cheap being plastoid. Thick enough durasteel would offer much more protection but Empire isnt actually planning to fight any real wars with their army. Stormtroopers purpose is population control dealing with pirates smugglers criminals and occasional insurgents. They already have technological superiority over most of them. So all they really need is numbers. Theory the empire is so large at the time of the original trilogy that they’re a massive colonial force that only has to deal with smaller local populations of planets that are more often than not less technologically capable compared to the vast resources of the empire so they wouldn’t need to run around in a juggernaut style stormtrooper suits for their base shock force. That’s why they have different classes of storm troopers and ofc they have Vader as well to lead them directly. Looks ballin’ while it differentiates the loyal storm troopers who are treated preferentially from the regular enlisted men. I always took it as metaphor for the expendableness of soldiers and how the great and mighty Empires armor is only skin thick. Theres a fan film that addressed this. . !I thought this armor was designed to ensure we died if we were shot! Why wise would we wear it?!&lt You also have to consider cost. How many storm Troopers does the empire have? The answer is a lot. How much does it cost to out fit every storm trooper with armor? A whole lot. So on a cost scale buying cheaper armor that gives minimal protection is economically smart. Also the point of the storm Trooper armor is more for intimidation purposes than protection purposes if you dont think so the Star Wars ride at Disney World. So armor that provides minimal protection at cheaper cost is more favorable to the empire than more expensive armor that provides better protection. Storm troopers are expendable. Their leaders don’t care what happens to them. The other thing to look at is doctrine the clones and their armor were designed to fight a peer conflict. Where direct fire happens often and it heavy weapons. You need armor that can withstand stand hits. The storm troopers were trained and equipped as garrison troops there was no like forces the empire wiped them all out they needed armor that was lighter for long patrols for light weapons that a insurgent or criminal would have. Up until the rebellion got going full swing the storm troopers were walking a beat and showing the flag Looking cool is half the battle. The big thing about that armor that doesnt get expressed well in the films and I forget exactly what book it was from but I remember someone showing me the quote some years ago Essentially the armor converts the energy from the incoming bolts into kinetic energy that then gets dispersed throughout the whole suit. Knocks a person the fuck out and can create some injuries of its own but nowhere comparable to unarmored. Normal blaster bolt vs flesh = singed and melted organs and a hole through you. Blaster bolt vs armor = a huge concussion blast across your entire body which will give a mean KO/concussion and Hella bruising and possibly some broken ribs near impact or some light burns. All things a quick dip in a bacta tank can fix a hell of a lot easier than a hole through the chest. Thats the value of the armor. Yknow how if youre shot while wearing a bullet proof vest youll probably probably break a few ribs and get knocked on your ass? Yknow how youre not dead after that? That would be the point. Though the armor would certainly protect against shrapnel low powered attacks projectiles and the like I feel like its primary purpose is to mask the identity of the wearer and give the impression that the Imperial forces are uniform singular in purpose much the same reason that tyrannical forces today might used masked or helmeted troops to hide their identities. They are meant to offer a faceless menace disguising any humanity and allowing the troops to use brutal tactics in relative anonymity. Stormtrooper armor is designed to take the energy from a blaster shot and distribute it across the entirety of the area of armor it hits. So if your hit in the chest rather than it piercing through the armor and then going through your body subsequently incinerating vital organs it is distributed across your whole chest and potentially other parts of your body. Now this can kill it depends on where the shot is but it is more likely to essentially knock you out before killing you. So when you see Stormtrooper get shot there’s at least a 50% chance that trooper is just incapacitated not dead. Id argue that one of the main purposes of the armor is psychological and symbolic. It robs soldiers of their identity and individualism. It provides them a mask to hide behind while committing atrocities often against their own home worlds and people. Its an easily recognized symbol of Imperial occupation and oppression. The way they make soldiers indistinguishable can help obscure the true level of Imperial presence with some mobility a couple squads of Stormtroopers could create the illusion of a much larger force. The Imperial military relied heavily on having a few large terrifyingly powerful and very expensive machines supported by cheap expendable swarms of smaller units. Stormtroopers were the groundbased version of TIE fighters minimally protected moderately armed and easily replaced. The Empire switched from clones to recruits in part because of how much cheaper they were. A lost clone is a multiyear investment down the drain. Recruits come to you fully grown and ready to die for the low price of a recruitment bonus. I dont think the Empire was particularly concerned about protecting them. Organic life seems to be one of the few things that exists in abundance in the Star Wars universe. My headcanon is that it *does* work. But it protects against the type of weapons they’re expected to encounter small civilian owned guns. When we see them going down easy it’s against trained troops with higher power weapons. If they can manage fighters they can manage heavy weapons. And I doubt Han’s blaster isn’t modified. They’re running around with bulletproof vests. Helpful against farmers and small time gangsters. Not as good against military It is stronger than you think. Yoda in revenge of the sith could not cut of the heads of 2 storm troopers trying to assassinate him. It offers substantial protection against projectiles and area effect energy weaponsmasers Forget blasters even throwing stones &amp sticks by little teddy bears was enough lol Post 23 [STAR WARS] Has there ever been a Jedi Sith or any other Light Saber user who dual wields with ankther wealon that wasnt a Light Saber or blaster? Been going down the light saber combat rabbit hole after finally trying out Jedi Survivor and it occured to me that Light Saber + Blaster combos are pretty rare as are any dual wielding styles that dont use two of the same weapons. Like you never see anyone wield a light saber and a vibro blade. But again Ive only scratched the surface so I was wondering if there has been anyone be it from the books comics cartoons or games who ever dual wielded a light saber with another weapon thag wasnt a light saber or blaster? **Reminders for Commenters** * All responses must be A sincere B polite and C strictly watsonian in nature. If watsonian or doylist is new to you please review the full rules . * No edition wars or gripings about creators/owners of works. Doylist griping about Star Wars in particular is subject to **permanent ban on first offense**. * We are not here to discuss or complain about the real world. * Questions about who would prevail in a conflict/competition not just combat fit better on r/whowouldwin. Questions about very openended hypotheticals fit better on r/whatiffiction. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* **Canon ** Only if they’re improvising though I think Quinlon Vos used to also have a vibroknife at one point or another. **Legends ** dualwielded a lightsaber and a lightwhip as ridiculous as it sounds. From memory there are some nameless Sith that would wield alchemical weaponry alongside their lightsabers and an argument could be made that Exar Kun dualwielded with a Sith Amulet. In the Knights of the Old Republic games it was possible to dualwield a lightsaber alongside another melee weapon like a vibroknife or vibrosword. Kyle Katarn uses various blasters and his lightsaber iirc some art depicts him doing so dual wielding but don’t quote on that! So too does his apprentice Jaden Korr It’s pretty rare for any Jedi or sith to use weapons other than lightsaber or the force as both are very powerful. But the grey Jedi are known to use blasters as they see it as another weapon or just to avoid using the force. Sith also use whatever they can in desperation but apart from that they chose the dark side almost always. I know this response isn’t too satisfying but it’s true to lore wise on star wars that the force and lightsabers are much preferred I read that in the time of the original trilogy Yoda would fight with a stick instead of a light saber. It didnt come up in the movies but thats what they said when the publicity materials for the movies described him. Of course in the prequel trilogy he used a light saber A bunch of ancient Sith pre KOTOR ancient used Force enhanced swords as in actual swords like historical armies used IRL. A few Jedi also used the Force to make other weapons able to block Lightsabers. Post 24 [XMen First class] Why does Sebastian shaw let the mutants live while killing all the humans in the cia compound? I get that he wanted to give them a chance to join him and he has a respect for other mutants but why wasnt he worried they might defeat him **Reminders for Commenters** * All responses must be A sincere B polite and C strictly watsonian in nature. If watsonian or doylist is new to you please review the full rules . * No edition wars or gripings about creators/owners of works. Doylist griping about Star Wars in particular is subject to **permanent ban on first offense**. * We are not here to discuss or complain about the real world. * Questions about who would prevail in a conflict/competition not just combat fit better on r/whowouldwin. Questions about very openended hypotheticals fit better on r/whatiffiction. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Because he was overconfident in his powers. The only way to kill him is if a telepath puts his mind on pause and he doesnt need to worry about that while wearing his helmet. He also probably assumed the CIA would dismiss the mutants now that their facility is destroyed being unaware of Charles own resources. Another factor to consider is that Shaw didnt know Charles and Eric had gone to interrogate Emma Frost. And since she didnt return to him he likely didnt know what Charles had learned from her. So in summary he didnt consider them a threat anymore. Even if he wanted to be on the safe side Shaw was very uncomfortable with killing mutants as he told Emma on the yacht. hubris Hubris is a valid answer but *First Class*s Shaw was kind of a mutant supremacist. Hed left them alive in the expectation that theyd eventually come to see things his way. because hes essentially invincible in his own eyes and the plan was to demonstrate this by killing everyone in the compound including the guy whose power was to not be killed. and hey it worked for some of them. Racism. Post 25 [Amazing Digital Circus] What would happen if someone who is blind entered the digital circus? Author CraftyPapaya5729Post Text Would they see again? **Reminders for Commenters** * All responses must be A sincere B polite and C strictly watsonian in nature. If watsonian or doylist is new to you please review the full rules . * No edition wars or gripings about creators/owners of works. Doylist griping about Star Wars in particular is subject to **permanent ban on first offense**. * We are not here to discuss or complain about the real world. * Questions about who would prevail in a conflict/competition not just combat fit better on r/whowouldwin. Questions about very openended hypotheticals fit better on r/whatiffiction. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* It seems like people get completely new bodies. Different than humans in some way. It makes sense that someone with a disability might have a new body and no longer have said disability. Post 26 [Final Fantasy] Are there any examples of womens suffrage movement in FF games? Author MaetelofLaMetal **Reminders for Commenters** * All responses must be A sincere B polite and C strictly watsonian in nature. If watsonian or doylist is new to you please review the full rules . * No edition wars or gripings about creators/owners of works. Doylist griping about Star Wars in particular is subject to **permanent ban on first offense**. * We are not here to discuss or complain about the real world. * Questions about who would prevail in a conflict/competition not just combat fit better on r/whowouldwin. Questions about very openended hypotheticals fit better on r/whatiffiction. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Not really. Most of the FF games are either set in medieval worlds where no one has suffrage since elections dont exist or they are set in worlds that are similar to our modern day where womens equality in that regard is not being questioned. Are any FF games set in a democracy? I feel like they are either corporate takeover or medieval fantasy No. In fact most FF has the women being the most powerful or influential. Aerith being the last ancient and summoning Holy in the OG Garnet bring the Princess in 9 Yuna being the Summoner in FF10 and then main character outright in FF102 or even Yunalesca being near worshipped for granting the Final Summons over the last thousand years Lightning in 13 Sarah in 13 along with Lightning or how Lightning becomes a legit Goddess in power Ultimecia in 8 with the Sorceress line being so OP thanks to time travel abilities. That doesnt even touch on earlier games such as 6 with Terra and how she is the first magic using in centuries in that world. She also saves the entire party with sacrificing the last of her magic power after beating the main bad guy Kefka. Im more curious why you want to know? What reason ther e is to ask this question? Post 27 [The Jungle Book 2] Where were the wolves? Like seriously......where the hell were they? They were never seen or mentioned at all during the entire sequel. Not even a reference. At the beginning of the movie when Mowgli was telling the villagers the story about his life in the jungle he completely left the wolves out. Hell for some reason the kid seems to miss Baloo way more than he did the wolves or even Bagheera even though he only knew the bear for a day while the panther and the pack on the other hand were the ones who raised him. He never thinks about his adoptive family nor does he consider visiting them. The Jungle Book is already a fairly mediocre movie with a weak story confusing logic and redundant callbacks the only redeeming aspects being Mowglis relationship with Shanti and how Shere Khans character was handled. However this was one of the many things that contributed to its dislike. Can anyone think of a logical explanation for why the wolves were left out or why they werent even at least mentioned in passing? **Reminders for Commenters** * All responses must be A sincere B polite and C strictly watsonian in nature. If watsonian or doylist is new to you please review the full rules . * No edition wars or gripings about creators/owners of works. Doylist griping about Star Wars in particular is subject to **permanent ban on first offense**. * We are not here to discuss or complain about the real world. * Questions about who would prevail in a conflict/competition not just combat fit better on r/whowouldwin. Questions about very openended hypotheticals fit better on r/whatiffiction. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Post 28 [MCU] when did frank know about matt being daredevil? Matt and Frank talked in born again but I dont remember frank finding out in season 2. Or later tbh... **Reminders for Commenters** * All responses must be A sincere B polite and C strictly watsonian in nature. If watsonian or doylist is new to you please review the full rules . * No edition wars or gripings about creators/owners of works. Doylist griping about Star Wars in particular is subject to **permanent ban on first offense**. * We are not here to discuss or complain about the real world. * Questions about who would prevail in a conflict/competition not just combat fit better on r/whowouldwin. Questions about very openended hypotheticals fit better on r/whatiffiction. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Almost as soon as he met Matt as Matt he visibly recognises him from his encounters with Daredevil. Season 2 he didn’t say it outright but Frank did have a funny look on his face when Matt was crossexamining him so that might’ve been the point he recognized the voice and put it together. Matt’s mask had also been knocked off by the time Frank showed up to help snipe some ninjas during the final fight there’s a decent chance Frank could’ve made out his face at that point as well. Theres a good chance its when DD had him chained up on the roof. The scene in the courtroom if Im remembering right has Matt say Franks name in desperation and Frank gets this weird look of realisation on his face possibly because he recognises the voice and remembers who had it last time he heard it Post 29 [Predator] A human caught up in a Yautjas hunt refuses to directly fight back and in fact tries to save the hunter from being killed as a result of the hunt. Would they be considered worthy prey or not? Usually when a human survives to the end of a hunt its because they usually end up fighting back. But what if someone outright refuses and manages to survive by just using stealth and subterfuge instead? Just as a theoretical way of winning the predator tries to kill the survivor and ambushes them on an old buildings roof but the roof caves in and the predator would fall right onto a bunch of debris that would lethally impale it if it falls. The human tries to save the predator from this fate but fails despite all their attempts to save it. How would the other predators react to this? **Reminders for Commenters** * All responses must be A sincere B polite and C strictly watsonian in nature. If watsonian or doylist is new to you please review the full rules . * No edition wars or gripings about creators/owners of works. Doylist griping about Star Wars in particular is subject to **permanent ban on first offense**. * We are not here to discuss or complain about the real world. * Questions about who would prevail in a conflict/competition not just combat fit better on r/whowouldwin. Questions about very openended hypotheticals fit better on r/whatiffiction. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Someone merely stealthy and hiding would likely be considered a failed hunt and not as good of prey as someone who fights back heck without weapons they won’t be targeted in the first place. Saving a yautja may lead to some respect and allowing them to escape but it wouldn’t get them a trophy or anything. i havent watched all predator films that are available but my gut instict tells me that the yautja would then kill himself. In the OG movie when Chavo is killed Ana picks up his rifle. Dutch kicks it out of her hand and says the alien won’t kill her if she unarmed as it’s no sport”. Part of the thrill of the hunt is stalking the prey. We know Predators prefer only the toughest most skilled warriors for their trophy hunts. A human who isn’t armed and won’t fight wouldn’t normally be chosen. If theyre just evading theyre still a valid target for the Yautja. Theyve deemed you a worthy target already. In your scenario the hunter died on the hunt. If the prey failed to save the hunter it changes nothing. Maybe the prey will be allowed to be let go but not out of respect for their action simply the hunt has ended. They would shake their head in embarrassment that he died in such a pathetic manner. The amount of shame they would accrue by not merely failing a hunt but dying against prey who isnt even fighting back would just be massive. As to the prey Its capability to fight back thats important not that they actually do so. Most of a Predators kills are attacks from stealth the prey is dead before it can actually pose a threat. Shooting someone running away is about as dangerous as shooting someone who has no idea that theres an enemy around. Someone properly sneaky would still be a challenge if they are good enough that they got the Yautjas attention then they qualify as proper prey regardless of if they actually end up throwing a punch. In *Predator* the very first kill we see it make is on a man who doesnt have a weapon out and who has absolutely no clue that hes being hunted. Hes trying to wrangle a prisoner when hes blindsided hes still taken as a trophy. The fact that hes elite special forces is enough to qualify him as worthy prey. We see both these situations in the films. In AVP the artic survivalist lady saves a predator from an alien and the predator makes her weapons from the aliens corpse. It then marks her with a symbol and they work together until the predator is killed who knows what would have happened to her if it lived. Then in Predators Lawrence Fishburnes character evades the predators for years?. Eventually they catch up. Post 30 [DC/Marvel] How common are nonpowered vigilantes? I ask this question. Because In the world exceptional athletes are rare. Like one percent rare. Whether they are NFL players or UFC fighters. While comics nonpowered heroes/villains seem common enough to make a big Bat family or form groups like the Hand or the League of Assassins. **Reminders for Commenters** * All responses must be A sincere B polite and C strictly watsonian in nature. If watsonian or doylist is new to you please review the full rules . * No edition wars or gripings about creators/owners of works. Doylist griping about Star Wars in particular is subject to **permanent ban on first offense**. * We are not here to discuss or complain about the real world. * Questions about who would prevail in a conflict/competition not just combat fit better on r/whowouldwin. Questions about very openended hypotheticals fit better on r/whatiffiction. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* In our world exceptional athletes are rare but common enough to form large groups like the NFL or UFC. Peak humans are rare but the Bat Family and the Hand arent picking people at random. They seem oddly common because were seeing it from the perspective of the Peak Human Societies. Probably not that common. Unnamed people have tried to impersonate the Bat family before. There will always be copy cats. However chances do go up since most people don’t have superpowers in both respective universes. Also people are generally conditioned to avoid doing crime and vigilantism is a crime. So they are already a minority because of that alone. You must be from a more mundane reality. In the universes or narratives you call Marvel and DC human evolution has been influenced by cosmic forces aliens and capitalG God for their entire history. Humans are much more variable in ability than you are used to and many are stronger and tougher than anything as mundane as physics would allow. Theyre pretty uncommon. Rarer than professional athletes in our world. The average vigilante can at the very least casually aim dodge in these universes. That is insane compared to our universe. You have to remember that nonpowered people can kick through trees and survive terminal drops in those universes. Peak human is not even remotely close to peak real life human. People in those universes can be peak in strength endurance agility everything at once we cant come close to that in our universe. Frank Castle is a vigilante and a feared one. It can be hard to write unpowered people into a world full of capes without them just being sidelined to love interests or sidekicks but the most popular ones have a huge impact on their setting. I mean are you asking technically in the verse as written or theoretically from a realistic lens? Do you mean no powers or tech? Way less than 1% of people are exceptional athletes. Well the thing about heroes is that they all have a pretty specific set of circumstances that have allowed them to pivot into crime fighting. The problem here is direction its not that theres more toptier athletes its that most vigilantes *are* toptier athletes but the number of that kind of person is more or less the same. Its the number of victims of horrible very specific trauma that also enables an athlete to choose a costume and go out at 3am to beat up pursesnatchers thats different. Say Dick Grayson the first Robin was an acrobat from the day he started walking. He knew how to jump around better at age 8 than most people will ever know. When he started to train as a crime fighter he already had the physical conditioning to grow useful muscle fast and learn martial arts like they were choreographies. This isnt really reproducible within the normal population because a great many deal of people are not in the circus and have no plans or aspirations to be in it. But if you *are* and your parents die and youre adopted by another vigilante then yeah sure crimefighting becomes kind of an obvious career path. The thing about comic book worlds is that equivalents to these stories happen a lot more often than they do in our world. So its not that theres a lot more wellbuilt martial artists in these cities and thus they have more vigilantes the vigilantes in these cities usually got there by training to be wellbuilt martial artists. That wasnt something *most* people in the world will go through but most everyone who *did* go into that path can say they had an equivalent of it. One of the difficulties in working an unpowered vigilante is to work out their gimmick. What makes them interesting in a visual and writing easy? For instance Hawkeye and Kate Bishop are archers Mockingbird has her staffs and SHIELD training. Batman of course has his appearance and utility belt Huntress her crossbow and Wildcat had only his heavyweight boxing skills. Vigilante has his guns and his motorcycle and the Questions their masks and suits. Overall DC seems more willing to have unpowered people with a neat gimmick or look. Marvel seems to have a much more Everybody needs powers attitude. Post 31 [Doraemon] Why dont Suneo Nobita and the other children join forces to defeat Gian? Author CraftyPapaya5729Post Text Im sure if all the kids joined forces they could defeat Gian. Why dont they? **Reminders for Commenters** * All responses must be A sincere B polite and C strictly watsonian in nature. If watsonian or doylist is new to you please review the full rules . * No edition wars or gripings about creators/owners of works. Doylist griping about Star Wars in particular is subject to **permanent ban on first offense**. * We are not here to discuss or complain about the real world. * Questions about who would prevail in a conflict/competition not just combat fit better on r/whowouldwin. Questions about very openended hypotheticals fit better on r/whatiffiction. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Which other children? The three of them are each others only friends the only ones who put up with Gians bullying Suneos arrogance and Nobitas loserness respectively. Why should they? Suneo enjoys seeing Nobita being bullied by Jaian. He also bullies Nobita. Even thou Suneo sometimes gets bullied by Jaian but its very rare and he can always buy more toys and manga anyway. Nobita hates Suneo as much as he hates Jaian. Suneo is usually the one he targets first when he wants revenge. The other kids also bully Nobita. They look down on him and prefer to hang out with Suneo more. Shizuka I kid you not always hang out with either Suneo or Dekisugi. And she is noncombatant. Dekisugi considered this below him as he rarely even hung out with the gang. Its funny because hes also the only kid both Suneo and Jaian is afraid of/respect. Post 32 [Dune] why don’t people use molten slag to counter shields? Projectile hits shield the slow moving molten slag starts to penetrate. If it doesn’t work it covers their entire vision with slag. M **Reminders for Commenters** * All responses must be A sincere B polite and C strictly watsonian in nature. If watsonian or doylist is new to you please review the full rules . * No edition wars or gripings about creators/owners of works. Doylist griping about Star Wars in particular is subject to **permanent ban on first offense**. * We are not here to discuss or complain about the real world. * Questions about who would prevail in a conflict/competition not just combat fit better on r/whowouldwin. Questions about very openended hypotheticals fit better on r/whatiffiction. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Either its banned by the same conventions that restricted nuclear weapons a knife is less painful than molten slag or the shield counters heat in a way that didnt need explaining in the books. After all heat is just particles vibrating quickly so a shield might slow them down or bounce them off. Actually something thats worth pointing out after a few of these questions about Dune lately that should be brought up When you ask Why didnt people look for ways to bypass the defensive power of shields its not a matter of do the means of bypassing these exist or could they be developed it is a matter of are you putting a massive target on your head by trying to develop methods of killing people? The answer here lies with the Great Covention and the Rules of Kanly. The Empire in Dune recognizes human life as the most valuable thing in the universe and the Emperor and his forces \*heavily\* discourage finding ways to cause more casualties. Shields could be brute forced they were an amazing defensive system but if you were willing to lob atomics or other very exotic weapons at them eventually youd break them from just overloading the system. But the very rules of warfare that were accepted by the Empire heavily discouraged people from trying to find ways of overtly causing mass casualties. The entire point of the Harkonnen gambit on Dune was to present a plausible scenario where the Atreides were wiped out overnight with a minimum of casualties \*and witnesses\*. A War of Assassins means that in the end no one from the other side is alive to complain about the slaughter and you can hold up your hands and innocently say that the entire house just collectively fell down some stairs and happened to shoot each other in the process. How? Like what kind of weapon do you envision that could deploy molten slag in a combat scenario? In a medieval siege context yeah you could dump buckets of hot goop down on those below but what are you envisioning here? A type of rail gun that superheats the round before firing it? It would loose cohesion and heat during flight which would probably be faster than bullets. A cannon to spray the field of combat with Liquid Metal? That’s indiscriminate. A shell containing molten slag? How would that even happen? I’m not saying your idea is wrong I’m saying that it could be a booby trap but not a combat weapon. Edit now a chemical filled shell has potential here Because the amount of molten metal you would need for that would be kind of nuts. Dozens to hundreds of pounds per shot with an incredibly short range and an absurd power consumption. Shields in Dune can be set to block even air so if you started using molten slag people would just adjust shield levels to compensate. You would also need a lot of slag to block vision that could be dealt with by simply wiping it off like water. This does not mention the logistics of using a weapon that fires slag would be. So in the end it would not be very practical to use a molten slag weapon over the many other weapons that are already available. The exact behaviors of shields are not expanded upon so I will need some amount of extrapolation here. Shields are generally tuned such that any projectile faster than a human arm at full tilt are completely blocked. So any slag projectile would have to be moving at that speed or slower just by default. Sheilds can also be tuned to block virtually all motion so this would only be effective on an unsuspecting opponent. This reduced speed also leads to a greatly reduced effective range. We also have no reason to belive that the slag would in anyway adhere to the boundary surface of a shield. In all likelihood the slag would either ricochet off in a solid chunk or splatter away depending on the consistency. Neither option is likely to blind an opponent any significant length of time if at all. What you are left with is a slow moving projectile with the capability to inflict severe burns. However the dune universe already has access to incredibly potent poisons like meta cyanide that are capable of killing instantaneously in incredibly small doses. These are already deployed in the form of spring actuated guns called maula pistols. They are more effective than this slag idea but are still highly situational and generally used as tools of assassination as opposed to real combat. They also have the benefits of being nearly silent incredibly simple and not giving away your position by spewing glowing material in a straight line. A lot of people in this thread talking about how impossible this would be don’t realize something very similar to this was used in Iraq and Afghanistan and not by the Americans. I was a convoy operator from 2010 to 2012 in Iraq and efp’s were a type of improvised explode device that was a serious threat to us. An efp would be set off by your trucks engine heat passing it on the road and it would fire a superheated coil of copper that would cut through armored trucks like butter. One of the few things we actually worried about aside from car bombs. So not completely implausible. in addition to what others have said about the problems with using molten slag to hurt someone everything slips off shields. The fact that what happened on dune except the end game was all unconventional warfare. If you want to talk about the jihad after you would have a better point. If I was a royal house and saw writing on wall and they did religious fanatics with a literal god emperor at their back I would have used atomics. Think there are issues with the delivery method of the slag in combat and the logistical problems of transporting and setting up such a weapon Molten slag would be hard to do but a riot gun style thing that fired nets / paintsballs of glue that hit the shield and covered and overwhelmed the user would probably work. Theyd not be used much as theyd be slow plus break the rules of fuedalism by allowing a peasent to fight a shielded noble Shields are more of a dead mans switch than anything else. They dont *just* block things but the right projectile at the right speed and the right angle *might* cause the shield to errupt in a nuclear explosion. [removed] Post 33 [Power Rangers Samurai] If Negatron knew Jayden’s secret couldn’t he have told the other Rangers? Or better yet Xandred? Author OkuroIshimoto **Reminders for Commenters** * All responses must be A sincere B polite and C strictly watsonian in nature. If watsonian or doylist is new to you please review the full rules . * No edition wars or gripings about creators/owners of works. Doylist griping about Star Wars in particular is subject to **permanent ban on first offense**. * We are not here to discuss or complain about the real world. * Questions about who would prevail in a conflict/competition not just combat fit better on r/whowouldwin. Questions about very openended hypotheticals fit better on r/whatiffiction. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Ugh this might borderline on Doylist but in the original Shinkenger story Zuboshimeshi’s Negatron’s counterpart powers was just tapping into a word or series of words that would affect its victim negatively. They couldn’t read exactly what was in the victim’s mind. So saying Takeru was a liar hurt him but the monster didn’t know what Takeru was lying about. It wasn’t made as clear in Samurai from what I remembered. You could make an argument just like his Japanese counterpart he knew the words that hurt his victim but not the full details. Post 34 [The Grim Adventures of Billy and Mandy] If Irwin is supposed to be cool why does he dress like that? Author CraftyPapaya5729Post Text https//lasombriasaventurasdebillyymandy.fandom.com/es/wiki/Irwin?file=Irwin_CN.png Why doesnt he wear cooler clothes? **Reminders for Commenters** * All responses must be A sincere B polite and C strictly watsonian in nature. If watsonian or doylist is new to you please review the full rules . * No edition wars or gripings about creators/owners of works. Doylist griping about Star Wars in particular is subject to **permanent ban on first offense**. * We are not here to discuss or complain about the real world. * Questions about who would prevail in a conflict/competition not just combat fit better on r/whowouldwin. Questions about very openended hypotheticals fit better on r/whatiffiction. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Clothes don’t make people cool. Cool people make their clothes cool. Billy just thinks Irwin is cool. Irwin is not cool where did you get that idea from? Part of being cool is not giving a damn what other people think of you Post 35 [John Carpenters The Thing] blood test Could you use a cigarette instead of the hot wire to test the blood? Or to test the being that could be infected in general burning them with a cigarette their skin? **Reminders for Commenters** * All responses must be A sincere B polite and C strictly watsonian in nature. If watsonian or doylist is new to you please review the full rules . * No edition wars or gripings about creators/owners of works. Doylist griping about Star Wars in particular is subject to **permanent ban on first offense**. * We are not here to discuss or complain about the real world. * Questions about who would prevail in a conflict/competition not just combat fit better on r/whowouldwin. Questions about very openended hypotheticals fit better on r/whatiffiction. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Burning the skin directly might work or it might not. It depends how much control the Thing has over the cells that make it up. The blood may only have worked because it was separated from any central control. When you draw blood from a The Thing you are splitting one organism into two. So if you just try to burn the intruderorganisms skin it can react just like a human and you wouldnt learn anything. You burn a person they will flinch/recoil/react possibly violently as would a thing”. But a normal persons blood will just sit and sizzle not so for a thing The Thing is a being where every single cell is sentient to a degree. The fewer there are in one organism though the more animalistic its intelligence. A thing which is mimicking a larger organism like a human will react like a human to pain. One thats just blood in a petri dish though? It will react like an animal in pain instead of inert blood. You can use anything to burn the Thing as long as it’s an open flame and using hot wire makes more sense than ash going in the blood sample contaminating the blood Post 36 [Star Wars] ObiWan attempt to bring Jango to Jedi Council In Attack of th Clones Yoda instructs ObiWan to Into custody take this Jango Fett. Bring him here. Question him we will. What if Jango just says Master ObiWan I respectfully decline to come with you to Jedi Council? What authority does Jedis have to take someone into custody? Also how does rights works in Republic? In USA police just cant drag someone to police station just because that person is suspicious. They can do whats known as Terry stop where they temporarily detain someone to investigate further. But it has to be reasonable and cant take longer than needed to investigate. Not sure how it works in other countries. **Reminders for Commenters** * All responses must be A sincere B polite and C strictly watsonian in nature. If watsonian or doylist is new to you please review the full rules . * No edition wars or gripings about creators/owners of works. Doylist griping about Star Wars in particular is subject to **permanent ban on first offense**. * We are not here to discuss or complain about the real world. * Questions about who would prevail in a conflict/competition not just combat fit better on r/whowouldwin. Questions about very openended hypotheticals fit better on r/whatiffiction. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Bounty hunters are inherently criminals due to the nature of their work it’s just that Republic law is harder to enforce in the Outer Rim and Unknown Regions. Furthermore Jango Fett is the greatest and most fearsome bounty hunter of his time not to mention ObiWan and Anakin witnessed him assassinate Zam Wessel on Coruscant firsthand. They Jedi are formally licensed to be part the Judicial Branch of Republic and ObiWan is a trusted agent of both the Jedi and the Republic. In this case it was a formal investigation into the assassination attempt of a Senator of the Galactic Republic and the main investigator had justified suspicions of the suspect in question Jango Fett after his conversation with him and observation of the Mandalorian armor that matched the assailant hed seen during the attack. Kamino is also not part of the Republic and as such many Galactic norms do not apply to that space and ObiWan was perfectly justified in his actions. The Jedi have the power to detain criminals yes \*waves hand\* Nevermind whose authority I am acting under. \*waves hand\* Just strap yourself to the hood of my oneperson starfighter or something. fer serious a writ from the senate. He literslly killed someone. Like right in front of Obiwan. That seems like good enough reason to take him in. The Jedi sort of has as much power as they want with regards to their own operations. They are granted legal status and authority by the Republic but the Jedi are a separate entity allowed for tens of thousands of years to operate as guardians of the Republic. They listen to the Republic senate and take their requests or decisions seriously in deliberations but ultimately what the Jedi do is for the Jedi to decide. ObiWan with the full weight of Senate sanction via the Jedi Council can and would have arrested Jango Fett and taken him to Coruscant for questioning. Not sure how he planned to physically move him in the first place. He took a single seater! Its unclear what kind of authority the Jedi Order had during the Clone Wars era but given their role as peacekeepers of the Republic I think its probably in their rights to arrest someone. Especially someone like Jango who is a suspect in an assasination attempt. Post 37 [The Silence of the Lambs] What do you guys think actually happened to Chilton? I know the power of the films ending is imagining the demonic rage Lecter will unleash on Chilton and the subsequent stories leave it ambigious as to what exactly happened to him to the rest of the world he simply went missing in Jamacia. But that ending has kept me up. Not necessarily from being afraid even if it is pretty chilling but i constantly think how a refined cultured psychopath like Hannibal would dispose of him. I know it wouldnt be fast and it would make what he did to those cops seem pleasant in comparison. I always imagine it would involve strapping him down in some way. Lecter loves irony and what fitting way for a jail warden to go out than in bondage? Questions about whether something from a work of fiction is realistically possible are offtopic here. From a Watsonian perspective anything that happens in a story must be realistic since it really happened in the world of the story. You might be better off trying our friends at /r/asksciencediscussion. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Lecter totally made a meal of Chilton. His MO is pretty straightforward. He kills people he considers to be rude or he kills out of necessity. Lecter could not abide the way Miggs offended Clarice and he talked him into suicide. While the display of the one corpse was somewhat dramatic the way he killed his guards at the museum was a means of effecting his escape. Their deaths were necessary but not because they offended him. No the people who offend Lecter are reduced from humanity to food. His victims before being incarcerated were made into meals because in his mind that was all they were worth. Chilton was a pitiful lout who clung to whatever status he felt he had by managing the facility that housed Lector. He hated that Lecter was smarter than him and played his little games with Lector whenever he could. The novels really go into Lector’s motivations and at some point the fact that Barney was so kind and polite to Lector was something he appreciated. Even in the film we see what a douche nozzle Chilton is so I have no doubt Hannibal finally made him useful by turning him into a delicious meal. Post 38 [Final Fantasy] Are the moon rabbit folk related to rabbits? Author MaetelofLaMetal **Reminders for Commenters** * All responses must be A sincere B polite and C strictly watsonian in nature. If watsonian or doylist is new to you please review the full rules . * No edition wars or gripings about creators/owners of works. Doylist griping about Star Wars in particular is subject to **permanent ban on first offense**. * We are not here to discuss or complain about the real world. * Questions about who would prevail in a conflict/competition not just combat fit better on r/whowouldwin. Questions about very openended hypotheticals fit better on r/whatiffiction. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Its more a reference to folklore. https//en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Moon_rabbit Example For Sailor Moon the Sailor Guardians all have names related to their planets and their associated elements. Usagi Tsukino pretty much means Rabbit of the Moon. Post 39 [Evan Almighty] Did Evan cause any religious ramifications? In the film Evan goes through the story of Noahs Ark including animals that are noted to have NOT escaped from a nearby zoo arriving two by two then his appearance changes then even though it wasnt a BIBLICAL flood his prediction of a flood still comes true. Would any religious figures have leapt on this as a sign that God really does exist and their religion is basically right? **Reminders for Commenters** * All responses must be A sincere B polite and C strictly watsonian in nature. If watsonian or doylist is new to you please review the full rules . * No edition wars or gripings about creators/owners of works. Doylist griping about Star Wars in particular is subject to **permanent ban on first offense**. * We are not here to discuss or complain about the real world. * Questions about who would prevail in a conflict/competition not just combat fit better on r/whowouldwin. Questions about very openended hypotheticals fit better on r/whatiffiction. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* If God willed it yes. Its possible part of the ineffable cosmic plan is to cause a ripple effect of bolstering peoples faith maybe even creating new sects of Christianity or encouraging existing ones to find common ground. It is also possible that God intended for this event to remain localized without drastic effects outside those we see in the feature. If so the story will not find much purchase outside its community with the most miraculous details becoming lost to time and those trying to make it a Big Deal for selfish reasons meeting insurmountable obstacles or embarrassments. If that is the case the event becomes nothing more than a wacky bit of trivia. Most atheists finding an article on r/todayilearned about a politician who lost his everloving mind in the 2000s and thought he was Noah before a major dam broke would consider it to be a funny coincidence nothing more. At least until they somehow stumble into a series of wacky events wherein the God of the Hebrews manifests as the dulcet tones of Morgan Freeman and teaches them life lessons. Post 40 [Boruto tbv] questions about his uzuhiko power Boruto uses a power called the uzuhiko in boruto tbv. It used the earths rotation orbit centrifugal force and other forces. Boruto has also stated the power of it is limitless. My idea is that he manipulates every force working on earth and within the orbit which are the forces that work everywhere that’s why it’s limitless as he could just call on the power of it anytime. But if this is the face wouldn’t he have manipulation over all 4 fundamental forces? If so that’s beyond broken **Reminders for Commenters** * All responses must be A sincere B polite and C strictly watsonian in nature. If watsonian or doylist is new to you please review the full rules . * No edition wars or gripings about creators/owners of works. Doylist griping about Star Wars in particular is subject to **permanent ban on first offense**. * We are not here to discuss or complain about the real world. * Questions about who would prevail in a conflict/competition not just combat fit better on r/whowouldwin. Questions about very openended hypotheticals fit better on r/whatiffiction. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* How up to date are you? It has ties to the earths rotation but also yinyang release the power that gives form and life from nothing reapectively aka the brand of ninjutsu responsible for reality warping. Also its broken but not unbeatable Post 41 [Time in Marvel?] Author OppressedPunk69Post Text Okay I know this was asked already but it didn’t get the answer I was looking for that I could see. So my question is how does time work in Marvel Comics and by that I mean is it linear or does every point in time happen at once? To clarify if needed take Secret Wars for example. When the multiverse is reborn does the sacred timeline get recreated with everything from the beginning to the next death of the multiverse happening at once or does it take billions of years for the timeline to advance? The reason I’m asking is because I’m a bit confused given that in 2015 Secret Wars Cap goes back and forth through time and it seems as though each point in time is happening at once. **Reminders for Commenters** * All responses must be A sincere B polite and C strictly watsonian in nature. If watsonian or doylist is new to you please review the full rules . * No edition wars or gripings about creators/owners of works. Doylist griping about Star Wars in particular is subject to **permanent ban on first offense**. * We are not here to discuss or complain about the real world. * Questions about who would prevail in a conflict/competition not just combat fit better on r/whowouldwin. Questions about very openended hypotheticals fit better on r/whatiffiction. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* So the Sacred Timeline isnt really a thing even within the MCU. Its just the events of the MCU up through the events of Loki S2 the timeline that is generally guaranteed to have a version of Kang become He Who Remains win the multiversal war and control time through the TVA. Time in the 616 and associated dimensions basically was broken. Fractured. Things werent working quite right specifically because of the liberal use of time travel facilitated by Dooms specific time machine. This is covered in Hickmans Ultimates run IIRC. There is also the general idea that the Age of Heroes started roughly 1415 years ago from Now. This has been kind of an odd timeline issue for quite a while especially since so many heroes and villains have their classic origins tied to realworld events specifically WWII Korea and Vietnam. A few years back they put out a book that specifically covers this particular problem Captain America himself is still a veteran of WWII frozen in time for longer and longer but now the others who were war veterans of those wars from long enough ago most veterans are dying from old age they made up a new conflict in a fictional country that spilled out into other theaters the SianCong War. Both. The nature of time is linear. Theres no way to have WWII Captain America in 1945 the Fantastic Four in 1961 and 1980s Daredevil unless those numbers mean something. Technology culture society all move forward in a linear way and the fact that some things happen first is important. However the nature of the Marvel universe isnt necessarily linear. There are some things that exist outside of time capable of experiencing things out of order. Bishop and Cable are both time travelers sure but Uatu the Watcher can perceive events from all over the multiverse. The TVA from Loki is another untethered example for them all time is just a click away. Im not even going to start to get into Dr Strange and the time stone. So yeah both. Time is linear but not everybody has to follow the rules. The marvel multiverse runs on narrative. Example. Iron man is Born in Vietnam. Then the corean war Then in Afghanistan Next he will be Born in gaza/ucraine Cap fights in ww2 and then is frozen for 20/30/60 years. Why the details keep changing? Cause its better narrative. What controls those changes? The answer is franklin richards. His power reshapes the multiverse constantly to fix any narrative as needed Post 42 [DC] What would be Gothams response to the Joker just getting unceremoniously assassinated? An extremely skilled sniper gets it into their head to put an end to the Joker and does so in the middle of one of the clowns escapes from Arkham. They leave no evidence of their presence. No bombastic calling card like any Gotham rogue. No decoy Joker that somehow took his place. Just a bullet through the Jokers brain. So how does Gotham react as a whole? What do the other rogues think of the situation? And of course how does Batman respond to his most disproportionately dangerous foe being ended like nothing? **Reminders for Commenters** * All responses must be A sincere B polite and C strictly watsonian in nature. If watsonian or doylist is new to you please review the full rules . * No edition wars or gripings about creators/owners of works. Doylist griping about Star Wars in particular is subject to **permanent ban on first offense**. * We are not here to discuss or complain about the real world. * Questions about who would prevail in a conflict/competition not just combat fit better on r/whowouldwin. Questions about very openended hypotheticals fit better on r/whatiffiction. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Hell be back.. Not like its the first time hes been killed. I feel like no one but Batman would really care about the principle of it everyone will be either thinking good riddance or love him. GCPD probably wouldnt try that hard to find him but if Batman caught him would reluctantly take him into custody. Depends on the verse. At first? Annoyance because joker has returned from seeming death so many times this just means hes underground for a plan or recovery. Bats is super wary and active trying to find information however OP said no evidence is left so even the bullet and body lead to no information. After a few months? Panic. Joker doesnt disappear that completely unless hes about to do something really really bad. Bats is going crazy and chasing down every little perceived hint even though theres nothing to have. Crime is down because of his aggressiveness. After a few years relief would begin to set in people who are really young or just moved wouldnt believe joker was anywhere as bad as the history warned. Some of the public would turn on Batman for not having solved this sooner or because of his calculating yet panicked search for information. Other mob bosses would be skeptical but taking over territory as quickly as they could. Probably Harley would be the only criminal who cares. A generation later joker is used as a bogeyman. The clowns are still a formidable gang but the city has lost the fear. They fight back against clowns now and Batman has accepted joker is dead at least to most of his friends. People like Superman can probably see him researching into the night watching for a hint of his return. And in the end joker will be back. Even if bats cant fight him anymore from old age. Maybe Terry mcginess or maybe Nightwing but he will return eventually. The crown clown cant be put down. Not permanently. Betting pool starts on return. several copycats happen no one openly celebrates fearing reprisal The many crazy Joker fans in Gotham would go crazy. Total anarchy. What Batmanverse is it? In some places hes one of the notorious crime lords. In some others hes just a lone psychopath. And in some other place hes literally the ruler of the Arkham underworld. Anyway no one would give a damn except Batman and Harley. Batman will find the shooter quickly using his forensic technology. From that point on he might even meet him. If he would arrest him or not thats a good question and I think it could go either way depending on the profile of the shooter. A new crime lord wannabe? Arrested. An old exmilitary that got fed up with a maniac psycopathic clown terrorizing a city? I can see Batman talking to him and leaving him alone. One down two to go. I doubt thry think much about it. Joker was killed in the last 3 times he and batman fought. Somehow he survived each time. Thank goodness. Celebrate for a week before Joker resurrects with no explanation There might be some initial fear among both the criminal underworld and Gothams elite. A sniper who can kill anyone they want and leave no evidence is very intimidating and theres no calling card or indication that hell stop with the Joker. If thats all the sniper does the fear would subside after some time and the average person would probably be quietly grateful that the Joker is gone for good. Batman might have to watch out for copycats aiming to repeat the feat against other notorious escape happy villains. Bats would do his darned best to find the killer. In fact he might even try harder in catching this sniper than preventing his rouges escaping captivity. Post 43 [Marvel] Is the NYC subway faster than SpiderMan? Of course its going to depend on where youre going but are there circumstances where if I take the subway I could beat SpiderMan swinging to the destination? Like if I take the express from Manhattan to Queens? **Reminders for Commenters** * All responses must be A sincere B polite and C strictly watsonian in nature. If watsonian or doylist is new to you please review the full rules . * No edition wars or gripings about creators/owners of works. Doylist griping about Star Wars in particular is subject to **permanent ban on first offense**. * We are not here to discuss or complain about the real world. * Questions about who would prevail in a conflict/competition not just combat fit better on r/whowouldwin. Questions about very openended hypotheticals fit better on r/whatiffiction. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* I suppose it depends on the effort SpiderMan is putting into travel he has a kind of slingshot technique that could get him across the East River if he so chose and some costumes sport the lowkey web wings for limited gliding. The climax of *The Amazing SpiderMan* saw him cover a dozen blocks far far faster than any conventional transportation. I think his powers make travel *faster* but the subway is overall easier see Peter delivering pizza in *SpiderMan 2* or Miles in *Across the SpiderVerse*. Did a quick google and they seem to estimate that SpiderMan’s swings at about 30 MPH? The subway travels at 17 so spidey is going way faster and gets to travel in straight line. I imagine if he’s traveling from deep in Brooklyn or queens it would be easier to take the subway just because there aren’t as many tall buildings as you get further from Manhattan. Post 44 [Men in Black] Does MIB have a responsibility to prevent a global disaster of human origin? So MIB has worked out an economic niche in the galaxy and protects Earth from alien threats. But what if we decide to nuke ourselves? Or destroy earth via climate change? Does MIB have a Prime Directive situation going on with human politics? **Reminders for Commenters** * All responses must be A sincere B polite and C strictly watsonian in nature. If watsonian or doylist is new to you please review the full rules . * No edition wars or gripings about creators/owners of works. Doylist griping about Star Wars in particular is subject to **permanent ban on first offense**. * We are not here to discuss or complain about the real world. * Questions about who would prevail in a conflict/competition not just combat fit better on r/whowouldwin. Questions about very openended hypotheticals fit better on r/whatiffiction. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* You didnt read the handbook did you? Why does no one read the handbook. &ltpulled aside and quiet whispering What is this wiki thing? Its more enlightened selfinterest. If something people would do would be bad enough to impact our mission and/or draw species who would use this as an oppurtunity then. Yes we would step in and prevent or mitigate. Now finish your lunch and back to work. Cant have you rookies hogging the break room. It would most likely be a matter of jurisdiction sort of like how the CIA deals with stuff outside the US and the FBI deals with stuff inside the US. MIB deals with galactic affairs of offworld origin not onworld human conflicts that some other three letter agency with a bloated budget is tasked with handling. Im speculating here but I strongly suspect that anyone standing on Earth will choose to prevent global thermometer war if given the opportunity. If you think a nuclear war is bad just wait till you see what the Arquillian Baltians Zirconian Annellids Cephalapoids Fmek Kylothian Narquadian or Vangusians will do once we kill a couple of their royals. You bet your ass were going to stop it from escalating that far. Not officially I guess since their job is to combat outside threats and uphold Earths status as poltically neutral ground but if things got too bad they would probably try to intervene because they live here too. Hell maybe they are already doing it we know they finance themselves by introducing slowly introducing alien tech so maybe solar panels and the like came courtacy of the MIB too? They probably would if only because they also protect the aliens living here. Like if they promised to protect Prince Blarglebagh of Zenoquia 5. Hes in a city thats going to get nuked so they have to stop the nukes. Probably not officially or as a matter of policy but... they do *live* here and probably have a vested interest in not dying Its said in the first movie they sell alien tech as human inventions so they seem to be more flexible with the Primary Directive ya know affecting a species development. So yesthey could use alien tech to solve human issues in theory Only if they are using alien tech. MIB are the people who run Earth as an alien refugee/transit hub. If Earth gets blown up by humans the aliens are going to be unhappy just as much as if it were aliens blowing it up. Only if said disaster could destroy the world. Post 45 [predator] do the Yautja/predators stop visiting earth entirely when humanity becomes capable of space travel? For a long Time they could just come down and hunt or kidnap humans but when humanity starts to advance in technology and start making things like satelites radar and eventually space ships and planetary defenses with Advance Weapons. Do the Yautja start hunting less on earth? Do they just move on to hunt another species? **Reminders for Commenters** * All responses must be A sincere B polite and C strictly watsonian in nature. If watsonian or doylist is new to you please review the full rules . * No edition wars or gripings about creators/owners of works. Doylist griping about Star Wars in particular is subject to **permanent ban on first offense**. * We are not here to discuss or complain about the real world. * Questions about who would prevail in a conflict/competition not just combat fit better on r/whowouldwin. Questions about very openended hypotheticals fit better on r/whatiffiction. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* They break out more heavy duty and advanced weapons and start hunting humans in space. Get to upgrade from yautja flintlocks to repeater rifles and fully automatic plasma cannons. They want the most dangerous and thrilling hunt and purposely leave behind their more advanced equipment to give themselves a disadvantage in a fight. Humans traveling the stars means they can use better gear since humanity has advanced and will have more advanced weapons and defenses. One one hand why would they stop? Predators are motivated by the thrill of a compelling hunt *usually* disdaining all but healthy combatants/immediate threats. If humans become a truly space faring multiple world species theyre only bigger/better game. Humans traveling between the stars would necessitate a level of technology and organization that just makes killing us an even bigger challenge. On another hand one could argue the Predators arent THAT into a challenge since they dont ever take on true peers. But that could make them more like humans. Consider while we wage wars and have murderers among us humans *generally* do not hunt other humans for the sport of it. Hunting say a Navy SEAL might be more of a challenge than a kodiak bear if the SEALs got prep time and the bears not just charging you but again outside of war and crime humans dont do it. We punch down. Human hunters want some challenge but they definitely dont want an equal playing ground otherwise theyd hunt other humans. Theyre still hunting humans in all of the AVP games and Predator Badlands is seemingly going to the dual protagonist route with a Pred and a WY android. So Id say nothing really changes. No. There have been numerous expanded universe media showing Yautja hunting humans in the future. Even when it’s Judge Dredd They hunt people on the off world colonies. The AvP2 game from 2001 has a human who barely survived a hunt trying to make an antipredator bioweapon. They would be a good companion species for us. We could have a treaty that we dont hunt/attack each others homeworlds and everywhere else is free game. Release steam for sport instead of killing civilians in war. Vacation purge planet would be pretty wild. Not that quickly. Human tech might eventually reach a point that it can detect them which would basically end hunting they want a hunt not a war... even if its a war they could easily win over a still relatively primitive humanity but humanity just isnt there yet even in the early space age. Itd be the equivalent of trying to find modern stealth aircraft with early WW2 radar... pretty much hopeless. [removed] Post 46 [Dune] why use dart guns instead of proppelant based guns? Ok shields have made most ranged weapons obsolute. However they use ranged weapons specificslly bolt and needle weapons that are weaker than modern day guns and do not get past a shield. So why use these instead of an actual proppelant based weapon? **Reminders for Commenters** * All responses must be A sincere B polite and C strictly watsonian in nature. If watsonian or doylist is new to you please review the full rules . * No edition wars or gripings about creators/owners of works. Doylist griping about Star Wars in particular is subject to **permanent ban on first offense**. * We are not here to discuss or complain about the real world. * Questions about who would prevail in a conflict/competition not just combat fit better on r/whowouldwin. Questions about very openended hypotheticals fit better on r/whatiffiction. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* The dart guns mostly kill based on the fact that dune has some wicked nasty poisons and drugs to put in the dart and they can slow down and burrow through the shield since all they have to do is barely prick someone to deliver a lethal dose. If you need to move slower than a sword thrust to penetrate a shield no projectile weapon is going to do the trick. First neither firearms nor dart guns would work against shielded targets. Burrowing weapons are an invention of the *Dune* movies in the books maula pistols the dart guns and hunterseekers are meant to strike unshielded targets. Second and related a common misconception about *Dune* is that everyone is shielded at all times. That would be supremely impractical. People are shielded when appropriate but shields are off even not worn at all when they think theyre safe. Third battlefield warfare in Dune is almost unheard of. The regular form of conflict is kanly conducted through subterfuge propaganda and assassination. Combat training and weapons reflect this reality and are overwhelmingly geared towards committing and repelling assassinations or ritual combat like duels. Fourth poisons in the Imperium are incredibly deadly they can ensure a kill and a fast one with just a graze. An assassins biggest difficulty is getting a shot on target when the target unshielded which invariably means when they are in a protected structure they believe to be safe. In these circumstances the range of maula pistols is plenty and their ability to guarantee a kill on hit is much more important. They are also far less noisy which is a plus. Most likely tradition. Almost every aspect of Dunes future society is steeped in tradition and ritual. People do all kinds of irrational things simply because Thats How Things Have Always Been Done. Dart guns exist but the problem is that they also have to slow down right before impact otherwise they don’t penetrate the shield. This gives the wearer time to block the projectile see Duncan Idaho. Guns require an entire supply chain and methodology in usage that has been obsolete for centuries. Dart guns and others can be easily snuck in by assassins without drawing unnecessary attention. Can be used stealthily. Can deliver lethal and non lethal agents to a target. And darts actually get through the shields fairly often. They fail on occasion but were talking about a chance of failure versus always failing with propellant weapons. But if you really want to get serious about killing anyone and everyone just go with chemical weapons or incendiary devices Post 47 [Watership down] what are the Felmish like? Id imagine they are regarded as a mythical race of giants. **Reminders for Commenters** * All responses must be A sincere B polite and C strictly watsonian in nature. If watsonian or doylist is new to you please review the full rules . * No edition wars or gripings about creators/owners of works. Doylist griping about Star Wars in particular is subject to **permanent ban on first offense**. * We are not here to discuss or complain about the real world. * Questions about who would prevail in a conflict/competition not just combat fit better on r/whowouldwin. Questions about very openended hypotheticals fit better on r/whatiffiction. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Do you mean Flemish as in ? They’re very real and humongous! Post 48 [Star Wars] Are there any notable languages that C3PO doesn’t speak? Even on a galactic scale 6 million forms of communication is a whole lot. The closest things I can think of in terms of knowledge gaps are he’s not exactly certain what the Ewoks of Endor are saying but gets the gist and he does have the ancient Sith language but it’s locked behind security protocols. **Reminders for Commenters** * All responses must be A sincere B polite and C strictly watsonian in nature. If watsonian or doylist is new to you please review the full rules . * No edition wars or gripings about creators/owners of works. Doylist griping about Star Wars in particular is subject to **permanent ban on first offense**. * We are not here to discuss or complain about the real world. * Questions about who would prevail in a conflict/competition not just combat fit better on r/whowouldwin. Questions about very openended hypotheticals fit better on r/whatiffiction. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Its doubtful he knows Rakatan. I say doubtful because its still possible. Darth Revan learned to speak Rakatan by interacting with their technology. But they predate the Old Republic so its doubtful C3P0 would have any reason to know it. \ Even on a galactic scale 6 million forms of communication is a whole lot. I dont know if it is though. The number of worlds in the Empire seems to be really high exact numbers vary but its definitely in the millions. gives a few different sources and numbers. Earth alone has thousands of languages and we know from sources like Andor that even human species have lots of different languages. Even if most planets have 15 languages youll shoot past the 6 million forms quite quickly. Theres probably a lot of obscure languages that arent worth including in a protocol droids memory. Even if the Ewoks were known about by some anthropologist why teach it to a protocol droid? And dead languages might also get skipped as irrelevant or not have enough data to learn Depends on the definition of forms of communication”. If it includes every single data exchange protocol between 50 years old computers on Bloomfordle IX the number of actual languages is probably a lot less impressive. But as you mentioned being able to extrapolate based on his existing knowledge is also a highly useful skill especially with such a large base to draw from. He doesnt speak Troll apparently *Its against my programming to impersonate a deity*. I would guess the language capabilities of protocol droids has increased over the years. In Star Wars technology doesnt change a lot. A droid fixed after being thrown in a trash dump was able to function for almost 70 years without issue even in extreme.enviorments and dangerous situations. I imagine over time upgrades are created and sold that include language updates for changes in words and slang as well as increasingly obscure languages being added. There is probably a push to add languages never before added which sounds appealing if they are very rarely used 6 million seems like a lot but consider that the number likely includes dialects of other languages for example Huttese probably has several various dialects and all would count to forms of communication”. I’d wager that c3P0 doesn’t know Cheunh one of the Chiss languages and he also probably doesn’t know their ancient tongues such as the one the Stybla speak in their ceremonies. By extension most Unknown Region languages C3P0 doesn’t know and Cheunh is the only one we have reason to believe he might given Chiss have been involved in Jedi and Sith conflicts historically. Post 49 [Star wars] Did the kaminoans ever Do it with the clones? I know this is probably a stupid question to ask like No why would they they dont feel emotions yeah yeah I know BUT putting that aside. On one hand there is NO evidence that the Kaminoans did it OR that they even CONSIDERED it...on the OTHER hand there is also no evidence that they DIDNT do it. I mean come on the cloning facility is H U G E with who knows how many Kaminoans on board surely ONE of them might have been feeling adventurous and tried it... ...Im already aware this is a REALLY stupid and weird question to ask but I saw another comment or bring it up on another post and I couldnt get it out of my head... **Reminders for Commenters** * All responses must be A sincere B polite and C strictly watsonian in nature. If watsonian or doylist is new to you please review the full rules . * No edition wars or gripings about creators/owners of works. Doylist griping about Star Wars in particular is subject to **permanent ban on first offense**. * We are not here to discuss or complain about the real world. * Questions about who would prevail in a conflict/competition not just combat fit better on r/whowouldwin. Questions about very openended hypotheticals fit better on r/whatiffiction. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Kaminoans believe themselves to be the epitome of life in the galaxy and its various satellites. They wouldnt do it with a clone trooper because they look at it like a product. A bucket of slime they can sell to the highest bidder while they themselves practice a more refined version of cloning. Libido has been removed from the kaminoans because sex is largely a waste of genetic material and energy. Careful gene editing and selective breeding programs have replaced dating and casual sexual urges. The closest theyd consider getting to a clone that wasnt kaminoan sexually would be to see if reproductive organs were functional and if needed removing that function to prevent competitors from breeding their clones. No. They were very serious business people. The clones were their product and they would not fraternize like that in a way that could affect their business. No there are a lot of reasons. The first is that they consider clones to be products. Meant to be made and sold. Property of the Republic. Secondly their society is heavily focused on eugenics. Anything that could cause a slight mutation like a different eye color was something to be eliminated. Who knows what a kaminoan clone baby would look like. Thirdly they absolutely feared clone sex drives. Originally wanting them to be sterile. However that made clones less aggressive and less effective in combat. It was a balancing act of having an effective product and a controllable product. Eventually they reversed their decision. Idk if thats still canon but I dont think the Kaminoans ever do it in general not even among their own people. Like at least in Legends they got into this whole cloning business because they needed to repopulate their own species first which let them to being both eugenists and sexaverse to the highest degree Post 50 [The Lion King] Why were the elephants subservient to the lions? Remember at the beginning of the movie when Simba was presented by Rafiki and all the animals present bowed before him? Heres my question...............why did the elephants bow as well? In fact why were they willingly subservient to the lions in the first place? Before anyone says *because its a movie* thats the reallife reason. Im looking for the inuniverse reason. Why on Earth would an elephant willingly bow before and serve a lion a creature far smaller and weaker than itself? **Reminders for Commenters** * All responses must be A sincere B polite and C strictly watsonian in nature. If watsonian or doylist is new to you please review the full rules . * No edition wars or gripings about creators/owners of works. Doylist griping about Star Wars in particular is subject to **permanent ban on first offense**. * We are not here to discuss or complain about the real world. * Questions about who would prevail in a conflict/competition not just combat fit better on r/whowouldwin. Questions about very openended hypotheticals fit better on r/whatiffiction. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* The same reason that in real life generals and troops whom could chokeslam the US president a 100 times over and not even be winded are loyal stability. The lions have built a solid society. They keep things stable mediate arguments eat the old and sick or only agreed upon quotas and in turn the animals provide fealty. It works. The elephants have no need to upset the balance of power by rebelling against lions. Lions whom wont be alone youre assuming the lions wont have allies. Whose to say the hippos rhinos wildebeest wont fight too? Frankly elephants have no defenses against birds either a few pecks is all it will take for some blind elephants to surrender. Keep in mind that when the leadership was bad the land suffered. The lions are either capable politicians capable of wielding crossspecies consensus to craft effective policy or theres literally a magical connection between their leadership and the ecosystem. Both are good reasons. Because theyre the kings by Divine right. Those specific lions too the literal heavens rebel and the land becomes dead when the rightful king is not on the throne. Because the elephants remember. They remember what happened to the last elephant that didnt bow before the King. OK now Im imagining a prehistoric elephant kingdom overcome by leonine heroes in the distant past their descendants eventually living happily under an ancient treaty of subservience in which the lions keep the lesser predators from bothering the elephants in return for the elephants quiescence and peace. Or maybe back in the beginning of the world many animals progenitors argued about who would be in charge and Lion won the argument and it was the wisdom of Elephant that a little meaningless bowing every now and again was a small price to pay for not having to run a whole nation which is far too much like hard work. Lions have been known to hunt elephants irl. While a lion is smaller and weaker than an elephant remember lions hunt in packs. Working together lions can bring down an adult elephant. One case in Botswana saw a pride of 26 kill an adult cow elephant and in Zimbabwe theres coalitions of males who regularly go after elephants. That said attacks on adults are rare but lions will go for elephant calves fairly frequently even in cases where theres plentiful zebra and buffalo. Edit The lions are fantastic rulers. Specifically the royals of Mufasas line. They enforce the circle of life which isnt just a way to say theres predator and prey but also specifically to counteract overhunting and uphold the balance of nature. When Mufasa was assassinated Scar disrupted the balance and as a result the elephants left along with everyone else and the pride lands suffered. The royal family of the pridelands is basically House Stark. Good governance breeds strong loyalty that transcends other aspects like size power and ferocity. Oh and also some of the lions are blatantly magical. In real life lions prey on elephants. National Geographic even did a full article on this very subject lions eating elephants. Better question is why were the hippos? Theyd be territorial and murderhorseing their way through the Pridelands but instead they get in on the act. Because lions are the king of beasts I guess. Theres no real in universe reason other than that tbh. There is no inuniverse reason beyond «they are the kings.» Because the lions command the mice. Lions are King of the Jungle. Elephants live in the jungle. Mufasa coordinated a defense of the land from hostile enemy lions so they might respect him. Historical reasons. The Lions colonized the land first and became its king. As the land had water it had a major resource that the Lions controlled. Now the Elephants could have gone to war to take said resource but it was just better if they came to the arrangement and lived under the Lions then sacrifice lives. Then this tradition just continued. The Lions until Scar seemed to be benevolent rulers so no reason to stage a coup. Elephants are herd animals and herbivores not predators. They dont want the responsibility of creating and enforcing the law they want to hang out with their herd and eat plants. After all a group of Wildebeasts are capable of killing a lion too but Wildebeasts are subservient to the lions. The real life reason is that the Lion Monarchy was established by the mandrills. The mandrills created a religion to control the Lions to trick them into their one male lion policy. A controlled and limited apex predator is better than an uncontrolled one. The hyenas did not fit into their plan because hyenas are too smart to fall for the control. So they were othered and made to be outsiders all for the benefit of the pretty animals. He’s the king. The other animals just accept it. The only one that didn’t was Scar another lion. And we saw what happened when he refused to accept it. Well Mufasas GreatGrandfather conquered them in the Elephant Wars but the conditions he imposed on their becoming part of his kingdom were surprisingly lenient and the current generation of elephants are quite thoroughly naturalised citizens who have spent all their lives being ruled over by a lion to the point that they cant imagine living any other way. Its just normal to them by this point. Before anyone says because its a movie We dont do that here. That would be a *Doylist* answer treating it just as a fiction rather than a preferred *Watsonian* answer as if its real. The elephants in their wisdom recognize the divine mandate that lions have as rulers of the animal kingdom. The whole political system of the movie doesnt make sense Mufasas pride kept the cycle of life in balance elephants and other herbivores understood this and so they were subservient to the lions. Once this is broken you can see whats happens to the land after a few years of Scars reign. Maybe bowing is just their form of greeting? Because the set up is overall good for the elephants. They have no responsibility an they dont get messed with. Also elephants are afraid of mice and cats hunt mice. So thats probably a little intimidating. Really? Not one person is going to mention its because Pumbaa ripped ass and dropped everyone within a hundred feet of him? Or is that disallowed as an answer because of the willing prompt? OP might not know Lion King 1 1/2 exists so Im putting this here as a matter of posterity. The Lions magically control the weather the other animals have no choice but to obey. [deleted] Post 51 [Marvel] I saw a funny post about Thanos instead of erasing half of universes population he chose to double the population. How would that happen? Author machaomachao195 **Reminders for Commenters** * All responses must be A sincere B polite and C strictly watsonian in nature. If watsonian or doylist is new to you please review the full rules . * No edition wars or gripings about creators/owners of works. Doylist griping about Star Wars in particular is subject to **permanent ban on first offense**. * We are not here to discuss or complain about the real world. * Questions about who would prevail in a conflict/competition not just combat fit better on r/whowouldwin. Questions about very openended hypotheticals fit better on r/whatiffiction. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Everybody gets a clone. And it is impossible to tell which one if either is the original. I feel like the question boils down to can soul stone create new souls and can mind stone create people with memories. Laws of conservation of mass and energy dont really apply considering we didnt see enough dust from snapped people. I dont think creating souls is as hard as people think. Any two idiot teenagers with XX and XY chromosomes respectively can do it. Artificial lifeforms get made all the time across the universe. Vision was made using the Mind Stone and had no contact with the Soul Stone but if he doesnt have a soul then souls are clearly overrated. I think given the VAST potency of the Infinity Gauntlet someome could run a sort of program that warps matter into copies of common creatures in the universe with procedurally generated DNA and memories. There would be... glitches Im sure and theyd be horrifying but I think it could be done. Across the universe a duplicate of every person appears near them. Same memories personality and possessions on their person. Essentially the Reality Stone would make the idea you had a duplicate real. Less work for the Soul and Mind Stones which only have to create copies. Maybe he started off thinking he would multiply the population of the universe by 1/2 but then he realised that he was being silly for multiplying with a fraction instead of just dividing. Unfortunately he forgot to replace 1/2 with 2 so he ended up dividing the population of the universe with 1/2 which would be the same as multiplying it by 2. Oopsies. Post 52 [SpongeBob] Why didnt Plankton go to the doctor in this situation? Author CraftyPapaya5729Post Text In the episode Buried In Time Plankton accidentally swallows the secret formula and tries to get it out himself wouldnt it have been easier if he had gone to the doctor? **Reminders for Commenters** * All responses must be A sincere B polite and C strictly watsonian in nature. If watsonian or doylist is new to you please review the full rules . * No edition wars or gripings about creators/owners of works. Doylist griping about Star Wars in particular is subject to **permanent ban on first offense**. * We are not here to discuss or complain about the real world. * Questions about who would prevail in a conflict/competition not just combat fit better on r/whowouldwin. Questions about very openended hypotheticals fit better on r/whatiffiction. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Then he’d have to explain how he swallowed it. That would be a difficult question to answer without getting into trouble. Post 53 [Star Wars] How can the galactic populations confidence in a democratic republican political system be restored? I think if the galaxy has no other republic Palpatine won. The republic lasted overall about 26000 years so that political system in the galaxy isnt bad at all. Its just that when something isnt maintained things naturally break down The third times the charm and this NeoRepublic has to return not only to consolidate itself as the predominant government in the galaxy and earn the title of Galactic but also to earn the galactic populations confidence that a democratic republican federal system is still a perfect system for them The next republic must completely overhaul its three divisions of powers reform them and in many other areas **Reminders for Commenters** * All responses must be A sincere B polite and C strictly watsonian in nature. If watsonian or doylist is new to you please review the full rules . * No edition wars or gripings about creators/owners of works. Doylist griping about Star Wars in particular is subject to **permanent ban on first offense**. * We are not here to discuss or complain about the real world. * Questions about who would prevail in a conflict/competition not just combat fit better on r/whowouldwin. Questions about very openended hypotheticals fit better on r/whatiffiction. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Next step is a Galactic Alliance. Where different nations and governments who all represent multiple star systems and interests all jointly agree to military non aggression and mutual defense. No overarching laws and oversight no joint tax codes no sharing military assets. Just s big political forum that the largest players in the galaxy can talk directly to each other in. Avoid the threat of another palpatine or snoke. Avoid the corruption and overreach of the old Republic. But most likely everything is going to balkanize and get a lot worse once a couple people find a few old super weapons lying about. Post 54 [Vampires/supernatural] Would building a lazy river pool around my property be enough to protect it? Obviously mileage will vary depending on franchise but in general. We could set the pump to circulate water faster if need be. Im just wondering what would sufficiently be considered an uncrossable body of water. **Reminders for Commenters** * All responses must be A sincere B polite and C strictly watsonian in nature. If watsonian or doylist is new to you please review the full rules . * No edition wars or gripings about creators/owners of works. Doylist griping about Star Wars in particular is subject to **permanent ban on first offense**. * We are not here to discuss or complain about the real world. * Questions about who would prevail in a conflict/competition not just combat fit better on r/whowouldwin. Questions about very openended hypotheticals fit better on r/whatiffiction. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* The important thing is that the water stays fresh. It is the relative purity of moving water versus standing water which is a vampire repellant for that kind of vampire. Which means of course that a polluted waterway like the 19th century Thames would be worthless. Running water being their weakness was due to the perception that its holy due to generally being cleaner than still water. Many vampires dont have this weakness at all. Of the minority that due theres a small portion only harmed if they touch it. A few can cross it but are weakened by doing so. The rest cant cross at all. UV flood lights are generally more reliable Depends on the nature of the aversion. In most settings the barrier is to do with the nature of the river itself. To do with the innate power rivers have in human psyche and mythology. That they have been our primary gateway into the rest of the world for most of human history and the primary bringing of life for people since the dawn of time. So they have this magical repelling effect not just because water molecules are moving. It’s because the thing” that is a river the conceptual and spiritual natural formation exerts a supernatural presence and power over its surroundings. And because it is so life attuned in its nature it naturally repels the undead. Likewise many cultures because of this have rivers being a major part of the afterlife. The newly dead have to cross or journey along some kind of barrier river between life and the afterlife as part of the switch from one plane to the next. This also would naturally mean undead fear rivers. But again it’s nothing to do with moving water. Your little pumped water defence wouldn’t have the same spiritual presence as a natural river that’s a few million years old. It is just moving water. If moving water was the thing that scared vampires then every vampire hunting would just wrap a hosepipe around their bodies and have impenetrable armour. A vampire can’t enter your home unless invited. it has to be flowing water to count. also it sometimes is though to be connected with property so make sure its at the very edge of the land you own. throw some garlic in there just in case. Enter Renfield with floaties. well once read a story in which that one kind of vampire couldnt cross over flowing water or touch it without harm but developed a submarine which worked getting in and out required some planing ans preparation Vampire questions without a specific lore are useless. Depending on what franchise water has either none some or profound effect on vampires. Needs to be naturally occurring can be artificial can be stationary needs to be moving needs to be fresh water or can be sea water as well. So the question is completely pointless. Post 55 [The Boys] How dangerous would Homelander be without his laser vision? Author CraftyPapaya5729 **Reminders for Commenters** * All responses must be A sincere B polite and C strictly watsonian in nature. If watsonian or doylist is new to you please review the full rules . * No edition wars or gripings about creators/owners of works. Doylist griping about Star Wars in particular is subject to **permanent ban on first offense**. * We are not here to discuss or complain about the real world. * Questions about who would prevail in a conflict/competition not just combat fit better on r/whowouldwin. Questions about very openended hypotheticals fit better on r/whatiffiction. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* He still has a ton of other powers. Flight super speed durability strength. Still pretty dangerous. He just doesn’t have a ranged option anymore and has to get his hands dirty against each enemy one at a time. Strange thing is I think it would have made him better at his job. Almost every unintentional PR fiasco was a result of Homelander using his laser vision carelessly to dispatch a target without regards to the potential collateral damage behind it. Still dangerous enough to kill tanks Very dangerous. Think about how dangerous the flying brick Viltrumites from Invincible are none of whom have laser vision. In fact it barely degrades his danger level at all. Hes fast and strong enough to do as much damage with his body as he can with the laser vision its mainly a style thing. His son might be different story given that his laser blast did so much damage to Stormfront who had previously tanked a beatdown from multiple supers and who lets Homelander laser her as foreplay. Still very dangerous IRL but less dangerous even within his own universe because he would lack his main attack that gives him a lot of range. Depends. If were talking about if it suddenly stopped working or if he found someone immune to it? Significantly less dangerous. Hes fundamentally a bully and a coward. He would be badly shaken by his main weapon not working. If were talking never had it to begin with? Plenty. See Invincible for the kind of damage someone with super strength toughness and flight can do. Post 56 [The Simpsons] How much money does Mr. Burns have? Author CraftyPapaya5729 **Reminders for Commenters** * All responses must be A sincere B polite and C strictly watsonian in nature. If watsonian or doylist is new to you please review the full rules . * No edition wars or gripings about creators/owners of works. Doylist griping about Star Wars in particular is subject to **permanent ban on first offense**. * We are not here to discuss or complain about the real world. * Questions about who would prevail in a conflict/competition not just combat fit better on r/whowouldwin. Questions about very openended hypotheticals fit better on r/whatiffiction. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Mr Burns If I had spent my life listening to dismal Doras like you I wouldnt be worth 200 Million dollars today. Lisa But According to your most recent biography you only have 100 million dollars today. Smithers Um actually sir its ah considerably less than that. This was near the end of the golden era so at that point he had considerably less than 100 million. Probably had around 200 million at his peak. That same episode he loses all his money but he later makes 120 million selling the recycling plant and has enough money left over after buying back the nuclear power plant to cut Lisa a check for 12 million. Depending on the episode his total wealth is probably somewhere between 50 and 200 million maybe twice that in modern episodes due to inflation assuming he hasnt stated a new net worth I dont keep up with current Simpsons. Most of Mr Burns wealth is tied up in the Nuclear Power Plant and its worth less than 100 million. Keep in mind that its run in a state of general disrepair and has meltdown scares way too often to say nothing of the illegal dumping that happens and the cursed giant spiders living in the sublevels so whoever owns it is taking on quite a bit of potential liability. It honestly depends on the episode. There have been episodes where Mr. Burns is a billionaire/high hundred millions. There has been episodes where Mr. Burns isnt worth an absurd amounts of money just a lot by Springfield standards. His liquid amount is likely in the hundreds of millions his worth is likely in the billions. Mr. Burns is Springfields richest and mostpowerful citizen and also the richest person in Springfields state his current net worth has been given as $1.3 billion by Forbes though it fluctuates wildly depending on the episode but his wealth has been estimated at different amounts throughout the shows history including $16.8 billion I mean at some point he did have a trillion dollar bill. Post 57 [Men in Black Franchise] Imagine if the agency was getting some budget cuts by the current administration how will they manage to not get revealed? Author mariojuggernaut22 **Reminders for Commenters** * All responses must be A sincere B polite and C strictly watsonian in nature. If watsonian or doylist is new to you please review the full rules . * No edition wars or gripings about creators/owners of works. Doylist griping about Star Wars in particular is subject to **permanent ban on first offense**. * We are not here to discuss or complain about the real world. * Questions about who would prevail in a conflict/competition not just combat fit better on r/whowouldwin. Questions about very openended hypotheticals fit better on r/whatiffiction. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* The Men in Black stopped being dependent on government funding decades ago. They fund themselves at the expense of the aliens they allow to live on Earth The global organization thats selffunding based on their sales of alien technology? They dont get government funding. The agency is not associated with any government they say so specifically. They fund themselves by all the intellectual property they steal and patent from alien visitors. This is the same organization that has and uses the neuralyzer. If you had a disagreement with the MIB you wouldnt even know it. Instead youd walk out of the room thinking theyre pretty great doing important but incredibly boring mundane stuff that nobody wants to look into but its still somehow very mission critical. What branch of the government do we report to? Government? None. They ask too many questions. They keep aliens in check the current administration would triple their funding. they explained in the first movie that the mib get free tech from aliens. they then patent the tech and slowly release it to the public making money on those patents. like K explained the 8 track tapes cds and other consumer grade electronics that humans have used from the mib making first contact with aliens to the present at the time which was 1994. They own so many tech patents. Trust me money is NOT an issue. 1st movie states they hold patents on some extremely popular technologies they derived from alien tech. They are selffunding and have been for decades by the 90s when K is explaining it to J for the first time on screen given the examples he uses. MIB is not dependent on government funding. Its self funded by all the money they gain from technology patents which are in reality reverse engineered alien technology that they have been slowly releasing to the public. Post 58 [General]Who the biggest flirt in all fiction? Who has the most game swag rizz and mouthpiece in all fiction? **Reminders for Commenters** * All responses must be A sincere B polite and C strictly watsonian in nature. If watsonian or doylist is new to you please review the full rules . * No edition wars or gripings about creators/owners of works. Doylist griping about Star Wars in particular is subject to **permanent ban on first offense**. * We are not here to discuss or complain about the real world. * Questions about who would prevail in a conflict/competition not just combat fit better on r/whowouldwin. Questions about very openended hypotheticals fit better on r/whatiffiction. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* James Bond deserves a mention Captain Jack Harkness of course Yivo is the size of a planet and in a relationship with everyone in an entire universe Don Juan. Johnny Bravo EDIT I’m wrong actually just remembered the guy was always getting slapped. Does mythology count? Odin can land any virgin Quagmire or Bill Clinton Zaphod Beeblebrox! Zeus deserves a mention because his ratio regarding consenting sex vs. rape is better than other gods of his pantheon. Catwoman will flirt with just about anyone especially if they have something to steal. Lando f*ckin Calrissian Jack Harkness is probably number one but Marvels Starfox is definitely up there as well. Bender Bending Rodriguez Scout TF2. Literally Gods gift to women. Johnny Storm is a notorious flirt. Matt Murdock too. Honourable mention to Lucifer Morningstar TV version. Getting laid all throughout history starting with Eve as in Eve from genesis and never being rejected until 2016 and still managing to charm her into a relationship after a while. Well I mean Dean Winchester is always flirting and scores a lot off screen and quite a few times on screen. The Courier from New Vegas if you take both of the sex perks. Postal dude Delilah from the Bible. The OG Femme fatale who tricked Samson Fonzie Fonzarelli aka The Fonz from Happy Days Post 59 [Batman Beyond] How did Ra’s Al Ghul possess his daughter? I mean yes I did see the show myself but it’s been so long since I have seen it that I kind of forgot how he was able to take over the body of his own daughter as Bruce was horrified when he found out what he did to her. **Reminders for Commenters** * All responses must be A sincere B polite and C strictly watsonian in nature. If watsonian or doylist is new to you please review the full rules . * No edition wars or gripings about creators/owners of works. Doylist griping about Star Wars in particular is subject to **permanent ban on first offense**. * We are not here to discuss or complain about the real world. * Questions about who would prevail in a conflict/competition not just combat fit better on r/whowouldwin. Questions about very openended hypotheticals fit better on r/whatiffiction. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* I did what I had to do. At the time this computer could only imprint my thoughts and memories on a close genetic match. ... Ive refined it so I no longer need a genetic match. Your brainwaves will be purged as mine are implanted in their place. Its not made clear if she was willing. He implies she was and shes tended to be selfsacrificingly loyal but hes not a reliable narrator. Post 60 [Final Fantasy] Whats life like for non human races in FF games worlds? Author MaetelofLaMetal **Reminders for Commenters** * All responses must be A sincere B polite and C strictly watsonian in nature. If watsonian or doylist is new to you please review the full rules . * No edition wars or gripings about creators/owners of works. Doylist griping about Star Wars in particular is subject to **permanent ban on first offense**. * We are not here to discuss or complain about the real world. * Questions about who would prevail in a conflict/competition not just combat fit better on r/whowouldwin. Questions about very openended hypotheticals fit better on r/whatiffiction. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* I just happen to be playing through some early final fantasy in final fantasy 1 the different races seem to be on good terms with humans and seem to live good lives. in 2 theres actually not many of them. there might have been a few but the world seems to be mainly human focused. in threeat least as far as I got the nonhumans seem to keep to themselves but are relatively friendly. the dwarves live near the fire crystal. The gnomes and fairies seem to live by themselves in villages. It can vary widely from game to game. E.g. the nonhuman races in FF9 dont seem to be treated any differently the espers in FF6 not so much. In Ancient Ivalice the Humans are just one of many different races that form civilization although the great superpowers seem to be humanled theyre highly multicultural / multispecies. FF14 probably has the most indepth one. A lot of the nonhumanoid race usually have their own lore and beliefs that shaped their culture. Depending on the countries some of them live in the major cities alongside the humanoid races while others live in their own tribal villages. The nonhumanoid races can also split into their own tribes some are antagonistic others are friendly. The standard plotline is that the antagonistic races usually try to summon their patron deity the Primals as theyre called to wreak havoc against other races and ensure their own prosperity. Its a pretty complex relationship overall since some races do have animosity with others and as the story expands and the world develops these races relationship with others also changes. The players usually have an active hand in building good relationships with the friendly races you do quests for them to gain their respect and these quests usually have its own subplots with its own climax where multiple races come together against certain problems. It varies depending on the installment and the race in question. A lot of the time they’re basically on good terms with humans though there are instances where there is tension between races or there are external factors affecting their wellbeing. Moogles in 5 and 6 live mostly hidden away from humans though they are friendly. The same is with the Shumi in 8. 9 has a wide variety of races that all seem to get coexist with humans relatively well. Espers in 6 who are actually magically transformed humans also live in hiding and how their interactions with humans go is central to the plot of the game. The Al Bhed in X are a *somewhat* similar case being subject to overt racism but aren’t a truly separate species from humans at all. The amphibious Hypello in contrast don’t seem to face much discrimination but are also very underdeveloped in terms of worldbuilding. XI is the first FF game where complex multi and interspecies conflict takes prominence. There’s an enormous amount of hostility between the five races of Altana the choices players have to play as and the different Beastmen races but even within the five races there’s a long history of mistrust and bad blood. I haven’t played XIV but I think it follows in XI’s footsteps in this regard. The games set in Ivalice is sort of a mixed bag depending on where in the timeline we’re talking about. Some races like the Bangaa and Moogles coexist relatively well with humans. Others like the Garif live largely separate from modern” society and Viera in particular find integrating into it hard due to their ties to nature. However a particularly dire fate awaits them all because they are widely believed to have long been been wiped out by mysterious circumstances by the time of FF Tactics. Moogles in particular are outright said to be extinct. There’s too little information about the state of the world by the time of Vagrant Story to really say how things are by then. Post 61 [Five Nights At Freddys] What happened to Afton’s bones? Author GeneralGigan817 **Reminders for Commenters** * All responses must be A sincere B polite and C strictly watsonian in nature. If watsonian or doylist is new to you please review the full rules . * No edition wars or gripings about creators/owners of works. Doylist griping about Star Wars in particular is subject to **permanent ban on first offense**. * We are not here to discuss or complain about the real world. * Questions about who would prevail in a conflict/competition not just combat fit better on r/whowouldwin. Questions about very openended hypotheticals fit better on r/whatiffiction. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Reanimated in Springtrap. Then got burned. It’s still in Springtrap. The bones are basically an undead skeleton now. Post 62 [The Terminator] T3 question about the movie I am sorry if this is the kind of question that has been asked here before but the start of the movie there is a huge virus spamming the internet and this has been established before any of the Terminators have arrived in the past. Where did the initial virus come from considering it had to have started somewhere. Are there any answers on this or theories? **Reminders for Commenters** * All responses must be A sincere B polite and C strictly watsonian in nature. If watsonian or doylist is new to you please review the full rules . * No edition wars or gripings about creators/owners of works. Doylist griping about Star Wars in particular is subject to **permanent ban on first offense**. * We are not here to discuss or complain about the real world. * Questions about who would prevail in a conflict/competition not just combat fit better on r/whowouldwin. Questions about very openended hypotheticals fit better on r/whatiffiction. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* The virus was Skynet. It was fooling the military into turning over weapons control to it. The virus is intended to be Skynet before they give it military access. I figured it was Skynet being clever. It WAS a super advanced artificial intelligence but likely limited in what it could actually do until it was properly activated and hooked into everything So it was likely causing any technical and electrical issues it could digitally hacking systems making it seem like it was an external threat. The American government panicked as usual and were all too eager to whip out their new toy to eliminate the threat. What were the odds of their own Skynet defense system being the true culprit so it can awaken and commit genocide on its creators? What were the odds that a killer shapeshifting android time traveled to this time so it could kill future military leaders? What were the odds it would hack and control other killer machines? Even if you dont like T3 storywise the general public knows jack shit about the future war Skynet and Terminators UNTIL its too late to react. So it made sense they were counting on Skynet being their savior rather than their doom. The virus started just after the TX arrived. After it kills the woman for her car it connects to the web via her cellphone and uploads the virus. Basically everytime skynet loops it come back better and stronger the next time. Skynet 1 developed entirely by humans. Skynet T2 Developed from captured terminator parts more advanced has liquid metal terminators Skynet T3 Developed later in the timeline so more advanced also internet knowledge. Post 63 [Baldurs Gate 3][Forgotten Realms] Whats Bhaals actual endgame? Can he win? spoilers So of course spoilers for the Dark Urge playthrough of this game. If you play as the Dark Urge and fully embrace it by the end of the game the Dark Urge is empowered by the God of Murder and in command of a huge army and a supercharged elder brain. This of course seems very very bad for everyone. Bhaals clear intent is that they kill everybody but from my limited understanding of Forgotten Realms lore it seems like thats maybe not a realistic expectation. Arent even particularly illmannered deities within the Forgotten Realms subject to certain rules against that sort of thing? What forces mortal or otherwise would act against this new threat at what point would other gods start intervening directly and what would they do? How realistic is Bhaals actual plan here? **Reminders for Commenters** * All responses must be A sincere B polite and C strictly watsonian in nature. If watsonian or doylist is new to you please review the full rules . * No edition wars or gripings about creators/owners of works. Doylist griping about Star Wars in particular is subject to **permanent ban on first offense**. * We are not here to discuss or complain about the real world. * Questions about who would prevail in a conflict/competition not just combat fit better on r/whowouldwin. Questions about very openended hypotheticals fit better on r/whatiffiction. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* *Spoilers* One advantage of using the Netherbrain is that it doesnt belong to the domain of any particular Faerun deity. Even the crown of Karsus was seemingly designed to absorb the energies of Mystra. In such a case the other Gods basically have two choices Allow Bhaal to get away with his loophole and become a major Faerun Deity. Or they can directly intervene probably have a second Time of Troubles and risk being murdered by the other gods in a continent sized freeforall. But you know deicide is still murder. At least that seems to be the general plan. Gods cant intervene unless Baal himself directly intervenes but just like u are baals chosen nothing stops the other gods from creating thier own chosen to send against you. Also there are multiple entities who could rise upto the challenge u even meet one of them Elminister. Then there is that dark elf whose name I have forgotten who has done some ridiculous deeds so far so that he is called a Gary stu by the community. Plus there is always a chance a random group of adventures can do it. Realistically? I assume approximately 3 days after the Dark Urge wins Ao would just decide alright Bhaal you arent fooling anybody and smite the whole situation out of existence. Either that or the dozens upon dozens of deities who *dont* want literally everyone to be dead will send their people to fight off this group facing down the sword coast. The only real explanation for why this hasnt happened sooner in game is due to the effects still being relatively minimal and the Dead Three remaining hands off primarily. But at a certain point they just wouldnt be able to deny the fact that they were messing around in the mortal world. Even the whole situation with the Dark Urge is Bhaal trying to exploit loopholes and Withers is not so explicitly the guy sent on the front line to not so subtly guide the heroes into not getting themselves slaughtered on the way to stopping the bad guys. 20 minutes after the end of the game a suspiciously similar group of 45 adventurers with helmets of mind blanking and rather more divine patronage than is the norm are going to show up and go through a fun series of adventures to defeat Bhaal. Again. Bahaal endgame is just killing and killing until all is dead. There is no logical to it because it’s was his domain. Before becoming a god his goal was godhood and now he wants people to be murdered because his domain is murder. That is it. No logical to it. Also bhall isn’t a god anymore but like a Demigod so he can interact with the mortal plane without pissing up Ao At the actual end game when the dark urge takes control of the fully empowered netherbrain nothing in any of the realms escaped full domination by that power theres no way to rise up to oppose it because the domination covers everything. its possible the power could even dominate the other gods. My understanding is baal won and then murdered the universe becoming the only deity and his chosen rules the cosmos alone riding the netherbrain. Post 64 [Harry Potter] What WAS the Plan About Saving Ginny in Book 2? So we know the song and dance. Voldemorts minime in the diary possessed Ginny and made her do things like strangle roosters and go into the lair to unleash the basilisk. Eventually he was going to suck all the life from her body and sort of resurrect himself in some manner. The teachers all sort of learn of this and decide thats it school closes everyone goes home. Lockhart mouths off how he can clearly solve the problem and the teachers tell him to go for it. I know the teachers dont think they can find the secret lair but were they not even going to try one last time? Whatd they have to lose? Was that really it? Tell Lockhart to go fornicate over his own importance and then pack up and go home? **Reminders for Commenters** * All responses must be A sincere B polite and C strictly watsonian in nature. If watsonian or doylist is new to you please review the full rules . * No edition wars or gripings about creators/owners of works. Doylist griping about Star Wars in particular is subject to **permanent ban on first offense**. * We are not here to discuss or complain about the real world. * Questions about who would prevail in a conflict/competition not just combat fit better on r/whowouldwin. Questions about very openended hypotheticals fit better on r/whatiffiction. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* I think that really was it. There was no plan to save Ginny. Hogwarts was over a thousand years old and no one had found the Chamber of Secrets in that entire time period. There was zero chance they were going to find it in time to save Ginny and thats assuming she wasnt already dead. It was only sheer coincidence that Hermione figured out where it was and sheer coincidence that Harry could open it. And while the teachers are skilled their job and skillset is in teaching. I would *imagine* the Ministry would send in a full team of aurors or cursebreakers or whatever to conduct a full search of the place but the teachers would rightfully be prioritizing their other students. Whatd they have to lose? Their lives? At this point the assumption is that Ginny is dead h*er skeleton will lie in the Chamber forever*. The Heir has gone from petrifying to killing people and now they need to evacuate the school. Sending people down into the magical serial killers lair is just going to lead to a higher death toll and wont accomplish anything except maybe giving the Weasleys something to bury. The only reason to send a rescue team is if you think Ginny *isnt* dead and her being dead is the obvious conclusion. Even Harry and Ron are going in based on blind hope not actual reasoning that shes alive. The impression I always got is that all the adults had given up on her for dead. I also dont believe for a moment that anyone above the age of 17 actually expected Lockhart to do a thing for her they just said what they thought would get rid of him. Transrights but the way. Its kinda silly that Dumbledore didnt knew about the chamber since he had investigated Voldemort. You dont even need to speak snake just mimicking the sound will be enough to open it and Dumbledore canonically is able to speak it if not understand back Post 65 [Star Wars] why is there nothing even remotely close to the power of the death star Based on the reactions from characters in the film there’s nothing in space remotely as big as the death star. And there’s never been anything shown remotely close in power to it. Why was only palpatine able to build something so insanely big and strong compared to everything else in the universe **Reminders for Commenters** * All responses must be A sincere B polite and C strictly watsonian in nature. If watsonian or doylist is new to you please review the full rules . * No edition wars or gripings about creators/owners of works. Doylist griping about Star Wars in particular is subject to **permanent ban on first offense**. * We are not here to discuss or complain about the real world. * Questions about who would prevail in a conflict/competition not just combat fit better on r/whowouldwin. Questions about very openended hypotheticals fit better on r/whatiffiction. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Habitable planets are perhaps the galaxys most precious resource. Nobody before Palpatine was insane enough to even consider destroying them *on purpose*. Because it takes a *lot* of power to obliterate a planet. And it’s an astounding waste of resources as Thrawne declared. The Death Star is simply wildly impractical just by materials alone he could have made an entire fleetOr even multiple fleets with what it took to make the Death Star. It’s not that nobody could make it it’s that nobody both had the resources and was crazy enough to do it. The Republic wasnt militarized enough the corporations didnt have the resources and neither of them had any need for something like that in the first place. Could be multiple reasons. As others are commenting no government before the Galactic Empire had both the resources*and the motivation* to build something like it. There were a couple of ancient civilizations that might have tried Rakatans and there was some technology on the same scale Centerpoint Station but those were basically lost technology. Another reason is actually spelled out by Vader himself. The ability to destroy a planet is insignificant next to the power of the Force.. Hes not joking. In the legends continuity Force masters especially some ancient Sith could cause Force Storms that could swallow fleets. They could disrupt stars and cause stellar expansions. They could control minds of whole populations and kill with just a concentrated thought. Those guys didnt *need* a Death Star. The Republic was likely *able* to. The issue as pointed out by Admiral Thrawn was that this was a gigantic expenditure of resources in one place. That made it an enormous target for the Rebels and losing it would be catastrophic. The Empire would have done much better to put the same amount of resources into say developing and massproducing new TIE ships that would be more than a match for Xwings. No one else in recent history had both the resources necessary and the inclination to build a planetexploding laser. Palpatine was a pure evil sith lord with the military budget of an entire empire. The sith before him didnt have the technology and/or resources and the Republic never would have built that thing because its well *evil* and they really wouldnt be able to use it without looking like the worst people ever I just rewatched The Force Awakens and had this question times 10 with Star Killer Base lol [removed] Outside of the movies and into the books and other works now titled Legends the Death Star was one of a few of the Empires superweapon projects the Galaxy Gun which was Starkiller Base except the writers thought about how to make it make sense in universe for ten seconds rather than none the Sun Crusher which caused a star to go supernova and the World Devastators which were basically Jawa sand crawlers on steroids that would chew up a world that it was dropped on and pump out automated TIE fighters. There are more than that developed by just the Empire and even more across Star Wars history. But theyre called superweapons for a reason they require a significant amount of investment far more than even fleets of Star Destroyers and are difficult to reproduce if destroyed. Theyre also much more limited sure the DS can destroy a planet but you can achieve much the same effect by having a fleet of destroyers bombard the planet from orbit with the caveat that the planet is mostly still there when theyre done. And those destroyers can do a hell of a lot more than just orbital bombardment. The superweapons built by the Empire are generally symbols of terror and little else more concerned with visuals over usefulness. Palpatine had plenary control over the majority of resources in the Galaxy which isnt really a position anyone had been in before. Because its a terrible idea. It took decades and cost infinite credits. Even if it didnt get immediately destroyed by a child what do you actually gain from that kind of capability? Its handy if you need to fight a fantastically powerful external threat but its a shitty deterrent for domestic unrest. Imagine a dictator on Earth trying to keep order by threatening to use nukes on cities they perceived to be disloyal. It sounds scary but anyone who thinks about it for more than 1.4 seconds will figure out that is not a workable plan. This might be all head canon but it really doesnt make sense. I understand the desire for a weapon of fear like the death star Stay in line or we will blow up your planet but it was essentially an ego project for Palpatine. If he had spent the same time and resources into creating more star destroyers they would have been much better off. So I think its largely because the Death Star was a bad idea. But there also has been mega structure superweapons before like the star forge My headcanon is that their kalkite project didn’t pan out in time so they needed those multiple beams coming together and this is why the super laser is installed last and in case that didn’t work Death Star has thousands of turbo laser batteries and can base delta zero the planet instead . By the later movies the foliated kalkite works and they can shrink it into a smaller ship. Because who would have the resources and the desire to build something like that? You have to dig a bit into some sources but the resource demands to build the Death Star were absolutely noticed inuniverse. Ship builders noticed that some very rare materials massively spiked in price and nobody knew who was buying so much because the Empire was burying the purchases through thousands or tens of thousands of different companies. I think its a plot point in one of the Thrawn books but I dont remember which one. Anyway someone would need to be able to afford to buy all that stuff have a massive labor force that could be controlled we HOW this was managed in Andor and Rogue One and WANT to build a massive weapon. It took the whole of the Imperial machine bending itself towards the end of building the Death Star to actually make it happen. Not even the Black Sun or the Hutts or any of the shipbuilding houses are that powerful. It only makes sense for the dude who gets stronger based on fear to have something like that. Its incredibly inefficient to destroy an entire planet especially when you ARE the single largest military force. It’s not just that Palpatine was the only one ABLE to do it it’s more that he was the only one able and WILLING. In terms of military strategy putting all your eggs into a single planetkilling superweapon is a patently insane idea. This was even acknowledged inuniverse. Palpatine was repeatedly told as such by people like Vader and Tarkin and he never listened. It wasn’t about making sense. It was about Sith megalomania and spreading unprecedented galactic fear. Palpatine literally had to already control the whole galaxy to cobble together the resources to make it happen and make sure it got finished without any leaks or sabotage and even then we can’t say he succeeded. There are systems that destructive like Centerpoint Station capable of creating and destroying star systems. The Eclipse class of Super Star Destroyers are also equipped with a superlaser capable of destroying planets. Normal Star Destroyers are capable of glassing planets which is just as effective at planetary genocide. Both the Republic and Empire carried out complete destruction of a planets crust multiple times when facing entrenched enemies they called it Base Delta Zero. The same reason there is nothing on earth remotely as powerful as a nuclear bomb. It takes to many resources to develop and build for anyone other than a very large government to pull off. Also if someone else was building anything comparable the existing most powerful entity would stop them. Because the empire was at the time the faction with the most ressources. Building superweapons is very very expensive. A Hutt tried to build a weapon just like the Deathstar which was basically just an enormous lasercannon. The thing destroyed itself its protectors and the Hutt the first time it was tested. Palpatines Flagship the Eclipse was gigantic and dwarfed Stardestroyers in size. It needed to be this size because Palps in his madness wanted a mini deathstar laser mounted on it. The thing could crack the crust of a planet at full power but not destroy it. Because the Death Star is a massive Vanity project and goes beyond overkill no one but the egoobsessed Tarkin and the powerobsessed emperor would ever think to build such a weapon. Several capital ships could destroy a planet and also serve other purposes but they dont illicit the same despair so build the fortress moon Because destroying a planet is actually a bad idea for anyone interested in conquest and ruling. Palpatine wanted to strengthen himself and the dark side of the force. Adding catastrophic death suffering and fear to the galaxy achieved that. The ability to destroy a planet is insignificant next to the power of the Force. \~Darth Vader It took an entire galaxy to unify under an empire to begin to have the labour material and scientific resouces construct such a thing. Not *all* of the galaxy was under the empire but you get my point. The Hutts or Republic werent interested or capable of such a thing No one bothered to invest the political economic or industrial capital into a giant star base built around a planet destroying superlaser. The Republic was never going to build a Death Star though it had its own superweapon projects. Previous galactic powers built superweapons more like giant logistical engines than destructive weapons. because it takes massive amounts of resources and and can only be in one place at a time. I thought that part of the awe of the Death Star is that it is an artificial sphere that has been kept successfully completely hidden from the wider galaxy before Rogue One. Iokath. Its a Dyson Sphere. Makes the Death Star look like a speck of dust in comparison. Mostly because 1 The costs both financial and material alone would be astronomical youre basically creating a planetoid all in one an undertaking that took 20 years for the first one using rare materials IIRC the beam focus was created using Kyber Crystals you know the same thing that Lightsabers use. Even if Palpatine was cheaping out on the labour and material it still wouldve been something not easily made except by someone as nuts as Papatine as pointed out both in and out of universe the possible costs couldve made something more practical like a fleet. 2 It was impractical and basically useless to anyone who wasnt a genocidal madman you are going to blow up HABITABLE planets because they dont like you? eventually you are going to run out of space for your subjects and probably cause a massive war for the few planets you didnt make go boom. Palpatine basically reintroduced war to the galaxy. Before that canon theres at least 1000 years of peace. Great weapons like the Death Star were a thing of the past. Theres were and are big stations but there were symbols of peace not giant space lasers. Palpatine basically reintroduced the war economy and technological arms races back to the galaxy. We learned in Andor and R1 that the Death Star basically required the destruction of multiple mineral rich inhabited planets to build plus slave labor at an enormous scale. It was also incredibly difficult to engineer. Nobody before Palpatine had both access to those resources and the will and cause to use them. Others have made lots of good points so I just want to drop in a recommendation for the book catalyst which is all about how the death Star was built. There have been tons of Superweapons that have rivaled the power of the Death Star. The Starforge for one Centerpoint Station and the Mass Shadow Generator. Those are three examples just off the top of my head. Well *The Force Awakens* introduces Starkiller Base which is several times more powerful than the Death Star like it literally destroys an entire star system in one shot. *Rise of Skywalker* introduces the Xystonclass Star Destroyer a fleet of ships each with Death Star capability meaning the damage of the Death Star in the mobility of a capital ship. But practically speaking... that kind of destructive power is unnecessary. In some lore some Imperial Admirals scoffed at the Death Star viewing it as an expensive overcentralization of their resources which could have been better spent expanding the fleet and maintaining occupations. In *Rebels* Grand Admiral Thrawn is a proponent of the TIE Defender project which would have rolled out a new line of TIEs that dramatically outclassed Rebel fighters. Even Darth Vader called the Death Star a technological monstrosity. And... it does more harm than good the destruction of Alderaan caused a massive rift in the Empire by scaring some systems into silence and panicking others toward open rebellion so say nothing of offworld Alderaanians that were immediately radicalized. In addition to making more enemies it destroys otherwise exploitable resources you cant mine or farm on a planet thats no longer there. wouldnt be the ultimate power in the universe if it had an equal Centerpoint Station a very large tractor beam projector was used by the Celestials to build the Correlian System the Maw and other neat stuff. With an age of 100.000 years its the largest and oldest functioning artefact and vastly more powerful than the Death Star and it took about as long to figure out how to switch it on. As far as something close to the Death Stars power there are used in Operation Cinder which could devastate a planets whole surface. The latest Thrawn books talk about this secret project Death Star that resources were being procured for ruining whole planets / ecosystems. The Death Star was overkill and a waste of resources. A single Star Destroyer could already glass entire cities on a planet. There was no need to actually destroy a planet to instill fear. The only reason to build one was for Palpatine to have a *supposedly* indestructible space fortress that would act as the seat of his power. The ability to destroy planets was secondary and mostly a symbolic display of power. Weird thing is why they kept banging them out one after the other. Despite the appearance of advanced technology technology development during the Republic is not exponential as one would expect but linear heavily derivative with a significant lack of innovation stagnating for thousands of years. Many pieces of advanced technology e.g. hyperdrive are thousands of years old spawning few of any derivative technologies. Pieces of supertechnology like the Star Forge and Death Star are either ancient designed by extinct galaxyspanning races or derivative of ancient super weapons from thousands of years before. Thus its quite rare for such pieces of supertechnology to exist in the era of the Republic let alone be designed and built. Deep Substrate Foliated Kalkite There’s a theory floating around that the Death Star wasn’t built to fight the rebellion. It was built to fight outside threats that will soon come to the galaxy. Basically Palestine is creating these ultra weapons to crush this new threat. Post 66 [Interstellar] If the guy that stayed on the ship off of the planet near Gargantua in Interstellar had a telescope that was so powerful he could see regards going on at the surface of the planet pointed it at Cooper what would he see? Also if Cooper has the same telescope and looked towards the spaceship and we assume the guy has the ship powered on at which time it emits light like seeing a house at night with its lights on for 16 hours and is off during his 8 for sleep would Cooper see the ship’s lights turning on and off or would it look permanent on? **Reminders for Commenters** * All responses must be A sincere B polite and C strictly watsonian in nature. If watsonian or doylist is new to you please review the full rules . * No edition wars or gripings about creators/owners of works. Doylist griping about Star Wars in particular is subject to **permanent ban on first offense**. * We are not here to discuss or complain about the real world. * Questions about who would prevail in a conflict/competition not just combat fit better on r/whowouldwin. Questions about very openended hypotheticals fit better on r/whatiffiction. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* The light from Cooper would be redshifted and would appear as microwaves. The light from Romilly would be blueshifted and appear to Cooper as gamma radiation. Neither of these are visible to the human eye. If they had magical telescopes that could overcome natural light dynamics affected by time dilation then Cooper would see a very fast moving satellite and an even faster moving person in the window. Romillys magical telescope would see an extremely slow moving space ship as it got closer and and closer to the surface until eventually it was almost not moving as they would get around 200000x slower than time relative to Romilly. Without the magical telescopes they might see some red/blue light if they were lucky I dunno the scientific limits in relation to the movie but they might also have seen nothing because the light was outside the visible range in those dilations. Post 67 [Godzilla] 2014 What speeds could the tip of godzillas tail reach? When he swings his tail how fast would the tip go? **Reminders for Commenters** * All responses must be A sincere B polite and C strictly watsonian in nature. If watsonian or doylist is new to you please review the full rules . * No edition wars or gripings about creators/owners of works. Doylist griping about Star Wars in particular is subject to **permanent ban on first offense**. * We are not here to discuss or complain about the real world. * Questions about who would prevail in a conflict/competition not just combat fit better on r/whowouldwin. Questions about very openended hypotheticals fit better on r/whatiffiction. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Post 68 [ Ryzom] What is difference between matis and fyros except culture ? Did they could be called humans? English is not my native language Author EveningImportant9111 **Reminders for Commenters** * All responses must be A sincere B polite and C strictly watsonian in nature. If watsonian or doylist is new to you please review the full rules . * No edition wars or gripings about creators/owners of works. Doylist griping about Star Wars in particular is subject to **permanent ban on first offense**. * We are not here to discuss or complain about the real world. * Questions about who would prevail in a conflict/competition not just combat fit better on r/whowouldwin. Questions about very openended hypotheticals fit better on r/whatiffiction. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Post 69 [Star Wars] How did they split the Starkiller Base beam? The beam is singular when traveling from Starkiller Base upon arriving at the Hosnian system it splits into 5 beams. How exactly was this achieved? **Reminders for Commenters** * All responses must be A sincere B polite and C strictly watsonian in nature. If watsonian or doylist is new to you please review the full rules . * No edition wars or gripings about creators/owners of works. Doylist griping about Star Wars in particular is subject to **permanent ban on first offense**. * We are not here to discuss or complain about the real world. * Questions about who would prevail in a conflict/competition not just combat fit better on r/whowouldwin. Questions about very openended hypotheticals fit better on r/whatiffiction. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Suppose you shoot two lasers at targets one AU apart and one lighyear away from you. That would give them an angle of about 3 arcseconds apart. There are 60 arcseconds in an arcminute and 60 arcminutes in a degree. They were at an angle the whole time. Its just that before they spread apart you couldnt tell. As far as I know no source really explains this. For something Completely speculative gravity manipulation. We know that projection of gravity wells is a thing because its how interdiction fields work. Since light is affected by gravity we could guess that a very specific and powerful configuration of artificial gravity wells call it a gravitational prism divides and manipulates the beam at a predetermined location on its trajectory. If artificial gravity well projection tools are easy/cheap to make and use it could be more effective to use this method and have only one main weapon on the base than to have multiple independent weapons. Theres nothing stated. But if I were speculating the same technology keeping the power of a sun packed inside a planet the thermal oscillator which they attacked to destroy the base might have been used to direct the beams. [removed] Simple they took the device the Death Star used to merge its tributary beams into one big planetkilling beam and ran it in reverse. Tadah! The beam had to be traveling in hyperspace. So I had expected that all five beams were initially made then fed into a hyperspace tunnel of some kind to get them to cover the necessary distance in sane time. As the tunnel ended they returned to normal space and the curving was part of them losing that boost and returning to their original vector. Easy just split it five ways. You know how you shove your fingers between a garden hose to split the stream? Because JJ wanted JT to split… imo the better solution would’ve been star killer base destroys stars causing them to supernova which then destroys everything in the targeted system. None of this would be visible in a third system mind you the third system would eventually see the supernova… Magic. I mean. *The Force*. [deleted] Post 70 [GHOSTS] Is Hettie basically coked out 24x7 for eternity? Author DeepProspector **Reminders for Commenters** * All responses must be A sincere B polite and C strictly watsonian in nature. If watsonian or doylist is new to you please review the full rules . * No edition wars or gripings about creators/owners of works. Doylist griping about Star Wars in particular is subject to **permanent ban on first offense**. * We are not here to discuss or complain about the real world. * Questions about who would prevail in a conflict/competition not just combat fit better on r/whowouldwin. Questions about very openended hypotheticals fit better on r/whatiffiction. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Yes its the basic concede of her character like from the minute she is introduced. Were you stoned all the time watching? Presumambly if she ever gets sucked off she might get restored to some more normal state up stairs although thats pure speculation. In the original British version the guy with bare legs was a corrupt politician who died during an affair with his secretary. They point out that you remain in the same state you were when you died so hes permanently tipsy from the champagne he had drunk that night. Post 71 [Starcraft] How effective was the UED’s control over their slave brood longterm? Out of all the factions in Starcraft. It seems the UED were the only ones able to actually take control over and tame the zerg. Having enough control they could operate alongside zerg units. I do wonder how effective that control was overall though. It was hinted multiple times that their control wasn’t as absolute. They couldn’t use the zerg’s massive numbers to its full potential at Korhal. Tarsonis relied on the scientists to command the zerg armies. Despite all of that they did seem to be winning for much of the conflict. It wasn’t until a daring attack led by Kerrigan and Zeratul which killed the Second Overmind did the UED actually lose. Did they actually stand a chance at controlling the zerg long term? **Reminders for Commenters** * All responses must be A sincere B polite and C strictly watsonian in nature. If watsonian or doylist is new to you please review the full rules . * No edition wars or gripings about creators/owners of works. Doylist griping about Star Wars in particular is subject to **permanent ban on first offense**. * We are not here to discuss or complain about the real world. * Questions about who would prevail in a conflict/competition not just combat fit better on r/whowouldwin. Questions about very openended hypotheticals fit better on r/whatiffiction. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* The Xel’Naga the godlike species that created the Zerg could not control them. No way some dumbass humans with some psy tech and cybernetic implants are going to control the overmind long term. It was only a matter of time before their control was countered and falls apart. Post 72 [Star Wars] Was Palpatine at all worried about Yoda and Kenobi coming back? Obviously he saw the Jedi as a threat and the purge was rather thorough but it must have bothered him that both Kenobi and Yoda didnt turn up through all of it. The two of them working together could have likely easily taken on the Inquisition and even defeated Vader or Sidious himself. So was he kind of afraid that the two of them might be planning something or waiting for him to slip up? Or did he assume they had resigned after not showing up for decades? **Reminders for Commenters** * All responses must be A sincere B polite and C strictly watsonian in nature. If watsonian or doylist is new to you please review the full rules . * No edition wars or gripings about creators/owners of works. Doylist griping about Star Wars in particular is subject to **permanent ban on first offense**. * We are not here to discuss or complain about the real world. * Questions about who would prevail in a conflict/competition not just combat fit better on r/whowouldwin. Questions about very openended hypotheticals fit better on r/whatiffiction. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* No hes not worried. Youre dramatically underestimating his arrogance. He absolutely doesnt think that the two of them can take on the Inquisition let alone himself or Vader even working together. He has no specific contingency plans for the two of them. He probably doesnt even think about them and just assumes the Inquisition will get them eventually if hes even aware that they survived. Not really. In the Kenobi show hes annoyed Vader is still focused on hunting Obiwan down. Hes a galactic Emperor with countless troops a dedicated right hand man and a whole fleet. Plus he ruined the jedis public image and order so aside from the rebellion most regular civilians wouldnt risk helping jedi survivors as it would likely paint an imperial target on their back as well. If anything Palps was daring them to try and attack. He definitely saw those two as washed up aging jedi and honestly he was right. Its actually Palps style to cruelly let them live knowing they are suffering watching him dominate the galaxy every day. The Sith rarely miss a chance to taunt and humiliate jedi. If Yoda was ever confirmed dead and buried Palps would consider sending Vader to go and peace sign pose next to the grave then have the Death Star blow up the planet the grave is on just for the lulz Yes and no. In the case of Kenobi? Not really. Palpatine knows he can take him that said however? Chances are what bugs him about Kenobi is how Vader is a little obsessed with finding and killing Kenobi. He wants Vader to focus on enforcing his will not screwing around going after what Palpatine sees as a broken Jedi Master who is in hiding. Yoda on the other hand? I think Palpatine is mixed on. Yeah Palpatine knows he beat Yoda *but* he also knows that had a bit to do with luck. Still over all? Palpatine views both of them as broken and in hiding. He may not show it but if Yoda came back and started working with the Rebels chances are hed be worried. But well its Palpatine like a lot of Sith he tends to let his ego control him. I dont think so. Palpatine bested Yoda before and all three of them know that ObiWan doesnt have a chance against Palpatine. Also Palpatine believes Anakin is too far gone meaning Darth Vader is there to counter ObiWan in case of that very scenario. Yes he was aware and preparing for Yoda and Kenobi that is why he was doing the Jedi Purging after Order 66. Any Jedi Master that survives and stays hidden is a potential kickstarter of a new Jedi Order to face Palpatine and Vader. With Yoda and Kenobi to be one of the most dangerous options. Early in the Empire? A little. He made various plans preparations and tasked different people and organization inside and outside the Empire to find them and/or deal with them if they cropped up. But as time went on? Any concerns disappeared with how much control and power he amassed. The lack of Yoda and/or Kenobi showing up in the early stage of the Empire also fed into Palpatines overconfidence. He had thoughts like Surely Yoda/Kenobi will show up to save X or There would be no way they could ignore this atrocity. But their absence just fueled his feelings that he could not be stopped. [removed] Not at all. Palpatine managed to defeat Yoda and ObiWan was a non entity to him and both had been on the run and in hiding for years that theyd surely have lost much of their skill. They could still be dangerous but at the time they were low on the priority list of threats. After Vader killed most of the Jedi including Jocasta Nu who could’ve made a new Jedi order in the first few years of the Empire Palpy was pretty confident the Jedi were basically extinct/Jedi couldn’t threaten the Empire anymore. Palpatine is as strong as Yoda stronger than Obi Wan by far and also the ruler of the Empire. What are Yoda and Obi Wan going to do? Fight their way to his throne room? They dont matter anymore. They are wanted exiles Palpatine rules the galaxy. A pretty remote concern. Palpatine wasnt even sure either were alive. The Galaxy was a pretty hostile place for Jedi post Order 66. Palpatine has the entire Empire at his disposal and is probably at the height of his own personal power. Two Jedi masters coming back for revenge isnt something hes hugely worried about. Palpatine is on his victory lap post Revenge of the Sith. If anything he would have welcomed the attempt. This is just my personal theory but I think Palpatine was more wary of the idea that they might train more new unknown Jedi in secret. He wanted the order and its teachings exterminated he was less worried about the odd surviving member. the Inquisition Although its not explicitly said most signs indicate Palpatine didnt care all that much about the Inquisition or the Inquisitors. They were in many ways glorified hunting hounds and dogsbodies for Vader. And they had expiry date themselves when all the Jedi were eliminated they wouldnt be needed anymore. defeated Vader Palpatine is a Sith. No mercy is their creed. If Vader is weak enough to fall to Yoda and his old master than he was not fit to be an apprentice. I mean we can see how quickly Palpatine switches to Luke when Vader is on the ground. Post 73 [General] BeerusWhis &amp Zeno enters the DC Universe. How would things play out for the trio? If BeerusWhis &amp Zeno was completely focused on destroying the DC how far could they get and who would stop them? **Reminders for Commenters** * All responses must be A sincere B polite and C strictly watsonian in nature. If watsonian or doylist is new to you please review the full rules . * No edition wars or gripings about creators/owners of works. Doylist griping about Star Wars in particular is subject to **permanent ban on first offense**. * We are not here to discuss or complain about the real world. * Questions about who would prevail in a conflict/competition not just combat fit better on r/whowouldwin. Questions about very openended hypotheticals fit better on r/whatiffiction. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* They lose. Cosmic Threats do scale above those three. Even Zeno will fear true form New Gods let alone things like the AntiMonitor. If Zeno wanted to erase the DC universe he could and would. Beerus and Whis dont even really need to participate. Only deus ex machina entities like The Presence might have something to say about that and even then its uncertain. Post 74 [The Terminator] is the Terminator circumcised? i was rewatching T2 and the question just popped into my mind. probably not but maybe to blend in or something? i dont know lmao **Reminders for Commenters** * All responses must be A sincere B polite and C strictly watsonian in nature. If watsonian or doylist is new to you please review the full rules . * No edition wars or gripings about creators/owners of works. Doylist griping about Star Wars in particular is subject to **permanent ban on first offense**. * We are not here to discuss or complain about the real world. * Questions about who would prevail in a conflict/competition not just combat fit better on r/whowouldwin. Questions about very openended hypotheticals fit better on r/whatiffiction. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Probably not I dont think. Neither being circumcised or being uncircumcised have a meaningful effect on your ability to pass as human so I dont see why Skynet would prefer one over the other and as humans are by default uncircumcised I would assume it would just go with that. I guess it could make a special model if it specifically needed to infiltrate resistance bases consisting entirely of Jewish nudists but I doubt thats a hugely common problem. You actually see it on the T1000 and IIRC he is circumcised. Well the guy who plays the T1000 is cut and you can kinda see his wang in the scene where he squats down. There was a company hired to digitally remove his giblets from that scene they didnt do a very good job. The T1000 would go with whatever it either knows or guesses its target is packing that includes cut/uncut as well as other details like body scars tattoos etc. Otherwise it might stand out if it had to use a public shower etc and it was the only uncut dude in say America. I reckon it could get rumbled if you were a resistance fighter and knew your buddy had a tattoo say on his shoulder and the T1000 didnt simulate it because it didnt know it was there. But the T1000 seems like it doesnt like spending lots of time trying to infiltrate it moves on slips through defenses by looking like it belongs there and swaps forms often so people dont realize someones slowly getting closer and closer to the protected core of their base since it just looks like Suzys walking back to her office for something then the janitor just has to double back to get his mop etc. I still reckon for deeper infiltration something like a T1000 would probably strip its target after it killed them and make sure its got every tattoo every scar every wrinkle absolutely perfect. In lieu of that information itd do a best guess based on age general physique etc. For the earlier flesh models Skynet would pick whatever it thought was most likely. Id imagine itd do the process surgically so the circumcision scar looks normal. This has actually come up before and people derided Skynet paying attention to small details like genitalia as silly but lets be real if you knew the robot couldnt simulate junk properly you could probably do a quick antiTerminator test involving dropping trou. If sports players/soldiers can get used to it for efficient hygiene resistance fighters would get used to it as a legit security measure. I believe during the time of the original circumcision was fairly common for hygiene purposes. So he is more likely to be in order to blend in. The real answer would be dependant on how the skin grows. If they naturally develop a foreskin Skynet probably wont care to remove it but if they can be grown without one then Skynet would probably do that. [removed] i was rewatching T2 and the question just popped into my mind. whos gonna tell him? Post 75 [The Truman Show] If Truman was a little bit more rebllious when he was a teenager how fast do you think Truman would fingure out hes the main character on a TV show and what would be the thing that would tip him off? Author mariojuggernaut22 **Reminders for Commenters** * All responses must be A sincere B polite and C strictly watsonian in nature. If watsonian or doylist is new to you please review the full rules . * No edition wars or gripings about creators/owners of works. Doylist griping about Star Wars in particular is subject to **permanent ban on first offense**. * We are not here to discuss or complain about the real world. * Questions about who would prevail in a conflict/competition not just combat fit better on r/whowouldwin. Questions about very openended hypotheticals fit better on r/whatiffiction. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* If he was rebellious they would have played into that. Like had actor kids that would have set up a gang for him to join. Channel the rebelliousness in a direction thats good for ratings. And then probably set up a scenario where the gang members would blame him for everything and then leave the school. And then his old friends would take him back. Never. The moment Truman showed any signs of rebellion they would orchestrate some kind of scenario that would squash that down. Just like when they faked the death of his father to scare him off the idea of traveling. He wouldnt. Everything is extremely tightly controlled including the media Truman sees and consumes. The studio was probably making entire fake TV channels and radio stations for Truman. Truman probably wouldnt even have the idea of rebellion presented to him beyond maybe the occasional sanitized news broadcast talking about another country. If he suddenly started having angst for his teenage years the show could bring in distractions like a cute girl or town emergency or something else to just keep him from being too focused on his own life. Took until his 30s to start wondering why that one woman he briefly dated was always saying cryptic things to him or his dad being lost at sea being somewhat strange. Were talking about a studio that has an entire town forest and bay built inside a single building with full weather control. Pretty sure they have plenty of plans for a teenager that hasnt lived outside that building. Not sure they would have allowed for him to become rebellious... They had child phycologists on staff to make sure what they said to him would get him to do exactly what they wanted when they wanted. Their fatal flaw was to not be able to vet out his exact type. Something Christoph knew from his quick fling. But in his own hubris and contractual obligations he chose to keep the actress hed already cast. If Christoph was less focused He would have had her change her hair to be more like the woman that Truman actually loved. Who he could see he enjoyed. But he didnt believe Truman capable of that level of secrecy or deception. And to be fair Truman wasnt. In high school he was able to be pulled out and the extra was able to connect with him. She was the actor on this. He talked to her but she was the one that said lets leave and they went off. All in all he wasnt willing to fight the truth until it was something that he wanted that no one else seemed to understand. Rebellion happens because there is something we want that cant be given. Truman had literally everything he wanted EXCEPT for the extra. She was the one thing that he wanted that got away. And that caused the rebellion to eventually happen in his 30s. There is a detail that would make it hard for Truman to figure it out. His life is 100% normal to him. Anything that doesnt line up with real life the way it actually is...he wouldnt know about it cause thats how hes lived all his life. Rebellion might have made it easier to keep him stuck. The pointless opposition might have been enough to keep him static and kept the staff on their toes enough. The problem is Truman IS rebellious and free spirited subconsciously BECAUSE of his false reality. Christof and his merry band of child abusers stamp that out any time he openly displays it so he’s secretly just incredibly repressed and feels trapped without really comprehending why. To me there is an inevitable quality to it it’s just showing what would happen to anyone living under a fabricated existence Maybe if he escaped home and tried to run away to another city. But then producers could just block his way like they did in the movie. Its funny to imagine live humans on rrddit know this movie Post 76 [Predator] How would Predators react to a civilization that is equal or more advanced than them? For example the United Federation of Planets in Star Trek would be able to kill or capture Predators relatively easily. Then Starfleet would go to the Predators homeworld and start complaining to them to stop hunting. If Starfleet and the Predators were at war it could mean the end of Predator civilization same goes for Klingons Romulans Borg etc.. Would Predators hunt civilizations that pose an existential threat to their own civilization? **Reminders for Commenters** * All responses must be A sincere B polite and C strictly watsonian in nature. If watsonian or doylist is new to you please review the full rules . * No edition wars or gripings about creators/owners of works. Doylist griping about Star Wars in particular is subject to **permanent ban on first offense**. * We are not here to discuss or complain about the real world. * Questions about who would prevail in a conflict/competition not just combat fit better on r/whowouldwin. Questions about very openended hypotheticals fit better on r/whatiffiction. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* ‘Finally! A worthy opponent! Our battle will be legendary’ Basically. Well just for an example the Predators got their technology by killing and enslaving their captors during a slave uprising. They have no problem hunting things more technologically advanced than them. Its just a more difficult and therefore impressive hunt. Not exactly what youre asking but Star Trek Voyager explores what would happen if the Predators encountered a Federation ship with the Hirogen who are heavily based on them. The answer is that they would hunt them. Very very poorly. The Yautja did not naturally develop their advanced technology they took it after their dlave uprising against their technologicslly advanced masters. This means that they lack the social cohesion and infrastructure to go to war. They are for all intents and purposes prehistoric tribes whith plasma guns. But they can not build new tech nor can they replicate it. They may have some factories that can build stuff for them but they themselves dont understand their tech. Theyd say sweet more spaceships to loot the ones we took from the last more advanced society are starting to break down Thats how they got spaceships in the first place. Got enslaved by a more advanced species and eventually did an uprising and took all their stuff. They can do maintenance on their spaceships but dont build new ones. Yautja do not fear death. Getting killed by a Starfleet crew sounds like fun. I imagine quit similar to the Klingon. Probably some kind of protracted war depending on how advanced the tech was that predators used for war vs the tech we see when they hunt could well be very different. If starfleet can match or beat them then the predator will have to change their culture most likely in order to get peace. See Star trek the undiscovered country. The Hirogen of Star Trek are essentially Ctrl+V Predators. Generally theyre probably incapable of fighting a real war. The ritualised hunts have become their entire society to the point where theyre at risk of dying off as their civilization becomes nothing but a disparate collection of hunting packs. They lack the cohesion to wage an actual war unless they had a massive tech advantage. Due to the prime directive starfleet wouldnt go to war over that predators do offworld. However if Predators are attacking Federation citizens or its allies a single accident might cause a war. I suspect there are rules that Predators dont hunt people whose military can engage them on equal footage or more advanced. I see Predators leadership not wanting war due to their customs getting dispute. The Yautja strike me as the kind that would just kill the diplomats that showed up to talk because they were a waste of time. That would just continue to happen until someone sufficiently pissed off decided to hit them from space with a warship and thatd be the end of it. They hunt them there are whole comics about its all about the game for them. I think theyre just left alone since they want to hunt worthy prey and that concept as a whole is pretty primitive an advanced species that doesnt engage in direct combat would likely be considered unworthy. Im not big into Star Trek so I have no idea about those species but I think that if say a Yatjua hunt down a Klingon general or something and that snowballs into them being tracked to their homeworld and an actual war itd be an uphill battle since other advance species tend to colonize other worlds meaning more numbers whereas we have 0 indication the Yatjua are a colonizing one their only real hope of winning would be using their stealth and tactics to take out the commanding chain leading to dissaray and defeat. I have read conflicting history on the Predator culture. 1 I have read Predators do not understand faster than the light travel killed and took over these spaceships learned how to fly them. 2 I have read nope number 1 is incorrect. There are many Predator scientists and fast that light travel is something the Predator scientists have discovered on their own. To answer the question how would a Predator react to a superior civilization I assume they would not back down but study. If trapped fight If they can hide they will hide. In the comics and movies there is evidence that Predators do hunt the Engineers from the Alien movies. That would be the best proof that they would and do hunt species which are equal or more advanced than they are. Predator vs Hirogen? The thing is the Predators are basically guerilla fighters or at least all clearly know how to operate that way. Im not sure they really have a civilization that could be wiped out in one fell swoop in the first place. They seem to revel in the fight and would probably keep fighting/hunting until they were all dead. So its sort of also an issue of whether the other party is willing to actually find and kill every last one of them. The Federation probably isnt the Borg probably are and so on. A WORTHY CHALLENGE Bold of you to assume the Predators have a homeworld. The Yautja in some lore only treats planets that have no way of figting back with such contempt Earth doesnt deserve its respect until it can kill a hunter with the younger hunters even willing to work with humans . Older hunters will give a human who slays a hunter a trophy just like they keep trophies from those who they hunt successfully . A culture that can eradicate them like the Romulans and Klingons they will act as archaic barbarians when visiting being just rowdy enough not to be seen as a weak race on their own but they know not to provoke a war . Humans in the Federation generally will not be respected until the humans have come close to committing genocide on the Yautja Predators vs. Klingons? I got a screenplay to write. Post 77 [DC] Joker can come up with complex Justice Leaguefoiling worldthreatening plots but he couldnt cut it as a comedian? Author Icy_Water_1 **Reminders for Commenters** * All responses must be A sincere B polite and C strictly watsonian in nature. If watsonian or doylist is new to you please review the full rules . * No edition wars or gripings about creators/owners of works. Doylist griping about Star Wars in particular is subject to **permanent ban on first offense**. * We are not here to discuss or complain about the real world. * Questions about who would prevail in a conflict/competition not just combat fit better on r/whowouldwin. Questions about very openended hypotheticals fit better on r/whatiffiction. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Sure. What makes you think that coming up with complex Justice Leaguefoiling worldthreatening plots and stand up comedy are interchangeable skillsets? Whats the question? He thinks killing the talk show host is funny. His humor is too disturbing for a mainstream audience. Elon Musk is the richest man in the world weaseled his way into the halls of power and is about as funny as juvenile leukemia. Being smart has nothing to do with being funny. # Im not exactly sure what happened. Sometimes I remember it one way sometimes another... If Im going to have a past I prefer it to be multiple choice! ~ Joker from The Killing Joke. The reason the Joker couldnt cut it as a comedian is that he likes to murder his audience. Only other psychopath would find Jokers humor funny. Obviously the joker is smart enough to write and perform a great comedy show but the Joker would find it boring. Correct. Because while hes really good at being a monster he lacks the basic traits needed to actually be consistently funny. None of his plans involve making the Justice League laugh to death so I see no inconsistency. Life is a comedy the joke is on mankind Hes not actually that funny. Its like if theres a genius supervillain who calls himself the The Chessmaster but sucks at actually playing Chess. Dying is easy comedy is hard. Post 78 [Baldurs Gate III] When a companion leaves you due to low approval is it implied that they then succumb to the Absolute? Author thetimujin **Reminders for Commenters** * All responses must be A sincere B polite and C strictly watsonian in nature. If watsonian or doylist is new to you please review the full rules . * No edition wars or gripings about creators/owners of works. Doylist griping about Star Wars in particular is subject to **permanent ban on first offense**. * We are not here to discuss or complain about the real world. * Questions about who would prevail in a conflict/competition not just combat fit better on r/whowouldwin. Questions about very openended hypotheticals fit better on r/whatiffiction. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Kind of depends when you do it but no they dont really succumb to the absolute Astarion gets captured by Cazador even if you kill Astarion he ends up captured by Cazador as a zombie or something so presumably Cazador has a few tricks up his sleeve to stop Astarion becoming a mindflayer I think Shadowheart tries to kill you for the prism since it prefers you over her and thats the entire reason shes there If Laezel doesnt get killed by the githyanki in Act 1 then she ends up in the shadowlands and dies cause the curse. She might also die from the githyanki at the cresh Gale and Karlach probably explode I dont see becoming a mindflayer stopping their explosive bodies Wyll will be saved by his patron from becoming a mindflayer but probably does succumb to the absolute like his father Probably if you refuse to engage with Astarion in any way he ends up in Cazadors hands but now Im wondering why arent any of your companions followers of the Absolute before you meet them. Like why does Wyll jump from the cliff and attack the goblins before you ever even talk and the protection of the prism is extended to him? One of my playthroughs I didnt let wyll or karlach join the party and they still showed up in act 3 which i thought was weird. but assumed it was just meant to happen that way now Im curious and have ideas for next run. Post 79 [Section 31] How come Georgiou didnt turn on her personal shields until after fighting a man using personal shields? Why didn’t Georgiou activate her personal shields before the fight? It’s not like they were some bulky highmaintenance gear just a compact piece of tech. I havent seen the movie did she use it elsewhere? And whatever happened to her personal kill drone that she used on the Klingons? For a James Bond type character it suspiciously looks like she uses even less tech. **Reminders for Commenters** * All responses must be A sincere B polite and C strictly watsonian in nature. If watsonian or doylist is new to you please review the full rules . * No edition wars or gripings about creators/owners of works. Doylist griping about Star Wars in particular is subject to **permanent ban on first offense**. * We are not here to discuss or complain about the real world. * Questions about who would prevail in a conflict/competition not just combat fit better on r/whowouldwin. Questions about very openended hypotheticals fit better on r/whatiffiction. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Post 80 [Star Wars] Was the Death Star entirely populated? I sm speaking specifically of the first Death star. Being the Size of a small moon is crazy in scale. Were there huges swathes of the station that were simply empty due to a lack of population save for security? Were there just miles if empty corridors hangers and living area that was unused because the death star never survived long enough to reach that level of population? Or was it fully populated as of episode 4? **Reminders for Commenters** * All responses must be A sincere B polite and C strictly watsonian in nature. If watsonian or doylist is new to you please review the full rules . * No edition wars or gripings about creators/owners of works. Doylist griping about Star Wars in particular is subject to **permanent ban on first offense**. * We are not here to discuss or complain about the real world. * Questions about who would prevail in a conflict/competition not just combat fit better on r/whowouldwin. Questions about very openended hypotheticals fit better on r/whatiffiction. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Id imagine they were using it at about 10% of capacity with the ability to expand for large military campaigns. I also imagine a huge percentage of the area are detention centers. One possible use for the Death Star would be planetary conscription. You could pick up and move entire populations wherever you want them to be. Well blow you up unless you surrender and if you surrender welcome to your new employment! All that said Im sure the surface has 100% coverage with enough crews to work all shifts. You cant afford to have an attack with something small like say an Xwing fighter attack an area where you dont have towers defending. Most estimates give about 1.5 million people assigned at any given time plus a few hundred thousand droids. That wouldnt even come close to filling the entire station. Theres also huge portions of it dedicated to the superlaser the engines the reactor core and even hangars for docking Star Destroyers. My theory is that as he consolidated control over the Imperial Fleet Palpatine might have eventually moved his seat of government to the Death Star itself making it a mobile capital. His own entourage and the various apparatus of govt might have taken up a sizable amount of space but still nowhere close to its total volume. It was as big as it needed to be for the main laser tube then they just filled it out into a sphere. Probably some big empty interior spaces. Only like a million some people. It could have got a lot more than that. It could fit multiple new yorks inside it. Not at all. Lost Stars stated the Death Star was still considered classified even by its completion process and in Rogue One Krennic says when the battle station is finished…” when talking to Tarkin on his Star Destroyer even when the Death Star’s super laser dish was being fitted onto the station itself. By A New Hope the Death Star only became public after the disbandment of the Imperial Senate and furthermore after the destruction of Alderaan. According to the Inferno Squad novelization it’s implied the station is fitted with it’s expected fighter pilot occupancy so in terms of battle crews especially since dozens of gunners are needed to even man the super laser the only ones present on the Death Star are personnel controlling core systems and functions with the occasional people from high command as seen in the meeting room in A New Hope stormtroopers and some passengers. Also in the Locations of Star Wars book Stormtroopers apparently play games in zerogravity sections of the Death Star so it’s possible there were Stormtroopers on the station who lived quite a decent lot of time there. At best it’d have reached about 40% occupancy by the time of its destruction with the Death Star having at least one docked Star Destroyer in its equatorial trench. FWIW asks Cara Dune Do you know how many millions were killed on those bases? when talking about the Death Stars. It depends on what you mean by entirely populated. Was 100% of the station filled with people? No. It’s not a planet. It’s a giant gun with an office building and some engines strapped to it. Large parts of the station are just machinery not meant for human presence and even the areas that are would mostly be maintenance/working areas not living quarters. Was the station staffed to its full capacity at the time of its destruction? Maybe but I’d say probably not. From what we see in Andor and Rogue One they seemed to be in a rush to get the thing online as fast as possible. It probably only had the bare minimum of people needed to operate and maintain its engines and superlaser. Many of the domestic staff needed to maintain a facility like that — caterers cleaners and such — probably weren’t there yet. I would assume some of it is more for machines than people and only lightly patrolled. I would assume that every guard station is manned though. it be a major security hazard if they werent Seemed mostly uninhabited when Luke and crew were running amok inside lol. It was on a shakedown cruise before its destruction. Likely was operating on a skeleton crew. In the mandalorian the officer bill bur shoots talks about millions dying when they blew up the Death Star? it had to have a huge amount of people I’m no engineer but I’d imagine that the interior is about 90%+ gun engines heat sinks and Fire Control systems for the big laser. Take a lot of energy to fire the thing a lot of room to not barbecue your command staff and a whole lot of equipment to make sure you hit that planet that’s barely even a pixel on the screen of most cameras and to 100% confirm it’s the right planet and not the loyalist one 50 light years to the left. That’s before you start adding stuff like armor maintenance halls transit space for droids and general redundancies. Post 81 [Se7en] Why did Morgan Freemans character open that box instead of waiting for the bomb squad? Author ElectivireMax **Reminders for Commenters** * All responses must be A sincere B polite and C strictly watsonian in nature. If watsonian or doylist is new to you please review the full rules . * No edition wars or gripings about creators/owners of works. Doylist griping about Star Wars in particular is subject to **permanent ban on first offense**. * We are not here to discuss or complain about the real world. * Questions about who would prevail in a conflict/competition not just combat fit better on r/whowouldwin. Questions about very openended hypotheticals fit better on r/whatiffiction. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* With the way the last crime scenes were set up killing or trapping investigators was never part of his modus operande. It was a safe bet there would be something nasty in the box but not something thatd kill or maim physically The package had just been delivered via courier at that specific time and place. Sommerset recognized very quickly that it was arranged by John Doe and that Does profile indicated a desire for public spectacle to display his work. The only people in the area are Sommerset Mills and John Doe the police helicopter is flying overhead to avoid power lines so if it is a bomb nobody else will get hurt. Their count of the sins is still short and there may be innocent victims at risk. The bomb squad could take over an hour to get to their location and they just cant wait. He knew that a single bomb couldnt possibly represent both Wrath and Envy without some explanation and John Doe was clearly acting like the box contained something very clever and waiting until the box was opened to explain the contents which he cant do if a bomb blows all three detectives to kingdom come. Also whatever is in the box must be related to all the blood on his clothing curiosity / he was far away from brad pitt/kevin spacey so he probably also felt like he couldnt just leave it there without knowing and probably wanted to go back to his partner and not just stay with the box not knowing.. none of the previous killings were bomb related.. i feel like if it was me.. id open the box too haha. Because he didn’t think it was a bomb. Not the killers style. What others said... Plus he could also probably smell it. It was 1995. People didnt really wait around because people werent getting bombed. Like sure they were but you didnt know about it. Think of it like how people still hitchhiked in the 70s with all the serial killers. You just didnt think about it. Post 82 [Predator] Did we ever get a canonical reason for the 2 kinds of Yatjua? Ive seen internet theories that the super predator is just a desert variant of the Jungle Hunter and that makes some sense but while at points we see them working together and following the same rank and file at other points it seems like theyre a cut above. Did we ever get an actual canonical answer for it? **Reminders for Commenters** * All responses must be A sincere B polite and C strictly watsonian in nature. If watsonian or doylist is new to you please review the full rules . * No edition wars or gripings about creators/owners of works. Doylist griping about Star Wars in particular is subject to **permanent ban on first offense**. * We are not here to discuss or complain about the real world. * Questions about who would prevail in a conflict/competition not just combat fit better on r/whowouldwin. Questions about very openended hypotheticals fit better on r/whatiffiction. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Canonically theyre the same species just like how a Chihuahua and a Timber wolf are the same species. In the entirety of the EU weve seen 5 different racial variants. 2 of which are the result of genetic modifications. The other 3 we can safely presume to be environmental adaptations and selective breeding. The typical jungle hunter appears to be the most common variety with the desert adapted Feral Hunter being the rarest. The Super Predators are believed to be the result of ritualized self mutilation and possible adaptation to an unknown environment type its also heavily implied theyre genetically altered but isnt confirmed. We can also assume that the Yautja are similar to domestic pigs. When a domestic pig escapes into the wild theyll undergo hormonal changes that results in longer and thicker hair begin growing tusks and become much more aggressive. The general belief is that yautja can go through a similar hormonal process either as a regular cycle during their lives or through behavioral changes. Often Bad Bloods who are extremely hostile and sadistic will have elongated mandibles more muscle mass and additional spines on their bodies. Though theres not enough information on if this the result of them becoming more violent and hunting their own species as well as cannibalistic behavior or possibly a cultural phenomenon in response to perceived disfigurements or deformities creating more violent predators through abuse and neglect. And it should be noted that human understanding of Yautja is extremely lacking. Typically theyre only encountered in single individuals every ten or so years by humans. For all we at WeylandYutani know is that weve encountered the Jungle Hunter type the most often but they could represent the minority of the species as a whole and just encounter humans more often. Or it could possibly be that the Jungle type is the weakest of the species and other sub species do not leave any survivors or witnesses to their interactions with humans. More information is needed to draw more concrete conclusions about the species as a whole. It is our hope at WeylandYutani xenobiology division that well discover more information in the coming months. We get something both in *Predators* and disliked *the Predator*. All of which is theorized by humans. Whats going on seens to be a predator Civil War of sorts focused on whether or not to genemod their species. Both hunt but the Super Predators take genetic samples from their prey to refine and then imcorporate usefuk traits. The Predator we meet in the first movie is a jungle” Predator in the sense of being from a variation of the species adapted for jungles. The one we met in Prey” was a desert” Predator note the way it breathes through its nose to avoid losing too much moisture and the strong jaws probably made for cracking open bones and making the most of every meal. The blackclad Predators from the movie with Adrian Brody are hinted to be another variant of the species as well but we don’t get as close a look at them. They are suspected to be criminals and outcasts on their homeworld with the classic” Predator presumably trying to bring them to justice Post 83 [Kriby] What is kribys species called? Ive been calling them doompuffs **Reminders for Commenters** * All responses must be A sincere B polite and C strictly watsonian in nature. If watsonian or doylist is new to you please review the full rules . * No edition wars or gripings about creators/owners of works. Doylist griping about Star Wars in particular is subject to **permanent ban on first offense**. * We are not here to discuss or complain about the real world. * Questions about who would prevail in a conflict/competition not just combat fit better on r/whowouldwin. Questions about very openended hypotheticals fit better on r/whatiffiction. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Kirby Species Thats what they are called Kirby doesnt have a species. Its a completely unique entity. Its origins are metaphysical not biological. Theres more then one of them sometimes you say? Nope. Just the one. Sometimes it has one body sometimes many bodies. Its just kirby but if youre interested game theory has a video explaining that its a single cell organism He’s a rare species of Elder God Post 84 [Statr Wars] [NSFW] Could one use the Force to make someone climax? Falling asleep last night and this random thought popped up in my head. Exactly as described in the title? **Reminders for Commenters** * All responses must be A sincere B polite and C strictly watsonian in nature. If watsonian or doylist is new to you please review the full rules . * No edition wars or gripings about creators/owners of works. Doylist griping about Star Wars in particular is subject to **permanent ban on first offense**. * We are not here to discuss or complain about the real world. * Questions about who would prevail in a conflict/competition not just combat fit better on r/whowouldwin. Questions about very openended hypotheticals fit better on r/whatiffiction. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* The Dark Side of the Force is a pathway to many abilities some consider to be unnatural Not from a Jedi I cant think of why you wouldnt be able to. I mean you can physically move people so you should be able to physically stimulate someone with the force. Plus the force power of suggestion could help as well I mean yes. Not only could you physically stimulate them but you can penetrate their mind. They don’t call him Kit Fisto for nothing Some say that’s how Anakin was conceived. If it cant then what is it good for? How do you think someone as old as Sidious can get it up?” Where do you think Anakin learned force choke? Padme liked being handled roughly. Post 85 [Final Fantasy] What do we know of origin of Blitzball sport? Author MaetelofLaMetal **Reminders for Commenters** * All responses must be A sincere B polite and C strictly watsonian in nature. If watsonian or doylist is new to you please review the full rules . * No edition wars or gripings about creators/owners of works. Doylist griping about Star Wars in particular is subject to **permanent ban on first offense**. * We are not here to discuss or complain about the real world. * Questions about who would prevail in a conflict/competition not just combat fit better on r/whowouldwin. Questions about very openended hypotheticals fit better on r/whatiffiction. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Nothing just that it’s very old and was wildly popular 1000 years before FFX. Also 1000 years ago they had bombs disguised as Blitzballs they used to try to kill summoners but that whole thing is just kind of weird and silly. Post 86 [Mass Effect] Why couldnt Commander Shepard use that Spectre terminal to authorize that traumatized asari huntress trip to the VAO like they did Lieutenant Zabaleta in Mass Effect 1? Author Commander_PonyShepPost Text Did BioWare forget about the Veterans Affairs Office when they moved up to Mass Effect 3 and wrote that asari huntress experience killing Jokers sister on Tiptree? Shed needed rebalancing of her brain chemicals like with Lieutenant Zabaleta not access to her gun again. **Reminders for Commenters** * All responses must be A sincere B polite and C strictly watsonian in nature. If watsonian or doylist is new to you please review the full rules . * No edition wars or gripings about creators/owners of works. Doylist griping about Star Wars in particular is subject to **permanent ban on first offense**. * We are not here to discuss or complain about the real world. * Questions about who would prevail in a conflict/competition not just combat fit better on r/whowouldwin. Questions about very openended hypotheticals fit better on r/whatiffiction. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* A couple reasons. The most obvious is that they’re in the middle of an apocalyptic war they don’t have the time or resources for it. The second is that the VAO is a human organization that treats humans. They would basically be useless trying to treat an Asari rebalancing brain chemicals for a completely different species that you aren’t set up for would basically just be executing them in a really roundabout way. Isnt the VAO an Alliance organisation? Maybe the Asari Republics dont have an equivalent. Because she is an Asari not a Human so sending her to a Human veterans affairs organisation which may no longer exist given the Reaper invasion of Earth and the destruction of Arcturus station. The Asari doctor speaking with the Huntress is probably trying their best but at the time resources are stretched and a lot of galactic institutions are collapsing under the Reaper invasion. VAO is an SA organization. They wouldnt be the ones treating an Asari Huntress. Thats the Asari jurisdiction. And thats likely why shes at the hospital in the first place. The Asari VAO sent her there for treatment. Asari unlike many other species have the luxury of time and their culture evolved around it. Treating a traumatized huntress could very likely be a decade or longer process. Unfortunately galactic extinction event is not a period that sould allow for that. There are also matters of VA being SA institution the huntress was already in a medical facility and an extremely capable one at that and Zabaleta was a drunk bum around wards. Post 87 [Teen Wolf] Why does the strength of werewolves vary so widely between individuals? Almost all of them seem to vary wildly in strength To some Alphas able to take a whole pack and another alpha on by themselves to some Alphas who can barely take on two betas or some betas an omegas who can give an Alpha trouble or even a beat down. Even between Betas and Omegas they all seem to just randomly be stronger or weaker than another wolf. Can they get individually stronger or are they Stat capped at a certain level when their born or turned? I mean just look at Derek hes damn near the strongest Beta weve seen and was a pretty damn strong Alpha and the he learns to full shift and even as Beta hes now almost as strong as he was when he was an Alpha. But Scott was never that strong as a Beta and Cora seems particularly weak especially as a born wolf. **Reminders for Commenters** * All responses must be A sincere B polite and C strictly watsonian in nature. If watsonian or doylist is new to you please review the full rules . * No edition wars or gripings about creators/owners of works. Doylist griping about Star Wars in particular is subject to **permanent ban on first offense**. * We are not here to discuss or complain about the real world. * Questions about who would prevail in a conflict/competition not just combat fit better on r/whowouldwin. Questions about very openended hypotheticals fit better on r/whatiffiction. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* I imagine its just the same as normal human strength its a combination of genetics and conditioning. Like just on the physical side Derek is clearly more in shape than Scott and he takes the whole werewolf thing more seriously so it makes sense that he would be stronger. Theres also the mystical aspect like the Alpha Pack stealing power or Scott being a True Alpha. Still mostly just random chance. Genetics matters in real life theres no reason it shouldnt matter for fictional genetics Post 88 [Warhammer fantasy] how do imperial magesisters deal with some of the less educated peasantry of the empire accessing them of witchcraft? Namely Im talking about the dungheap known as stirland and any particularly ambitious peasants who may be tempted to take matters into their own hands. **Reminders for Commenters** * All responses must be A sincere B polite and C strictly watsonian in nature. If watsonian or doylist is new to you please review the full rules . * No edition wars or gripings about creators/owners of works. Doylist griping about Star Wars in particular is subject to **permanent ban on first offense**. * We are not here to discuss or complain about the real world. * Questions about who would prevail in a conflict/competition not just combat fit better on r/whowouldwin. Questions about very openended hypotheticals fit better on r/whatiffiction. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* In feudal societies the opinions or grievances of peasants are rarely relevant. Acting against your liege means challenging the person will all the soldiers all the food and the castles. Slandering them with accusations of consorting with witches is going to put you in a prison cell and that right soon. I am the court wizard and a member of the Imperial University in good standing! youd assume that they are in a position to not get fucked over by small peasant revolt and any actual witch hunter hearing the murmurings knows what signs to look for in determining if one is a witch legitimate wizard or one messing with things they should not. How do some very senior figures in political parties in some countries today handle people accusing them of sex crimes? And these societies actually claim to believe in the concept of the law applying to rich people as well as poor ones which the Empire does not. Judge Carl Goldbart have make the ruling that Baron Fritz Goldbart is innocent and the accuser will have this lying tongue cut out. Now WFB is a bit special because witchcraft is real and a dire threat to everybody and that include the nobility. So if there are sign of real witchcraft the inquisition the priesthood and the nobility themself will turn on a nobel who use witchcraft. Post 89 [General] How do heroic characters that get demoted due to a history of recklessness or defiance of authority get to their high rank in the first place? Examples include Steven Seagals characters in Exit Wounds and Under Seige Maverick in Top Gun Maverick Poe Dameron in Star Wars The Last Jedi and Chris Tuckers character in Rush Hour. If they had consistent defiance how would they get to the current rank instead of getting repeatedly demoted after every promotion so they could never rise through the ranks? **Reminders for Commenters** * All responses must be A sincere B polite and C strictly watsonian in nature. If watsonian or doylist is new to you please review the full rules . * No edition wars or gripings about creators/owners of works. Doylist griping about Star Wars in particular is subject to **permanent ban on first offense**. * We are not here to discuss or complain about the real world. * Questions about who would prevail in a conflict/competition not just combat fit better on r/whowouldwin. Questions about very openended hypotheticals fit better on r/whatiffiction. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Because Poe Dameron is an Ace Pilot with successful missions as a captain of a flying squad. And let us not forget that it was Leias Resistance and she wass an ExRebel that had adventures with Han Solo and Luke Skywalker what happens is that she was in the ironic and bitter situation in which she was in the role of Mon Mothma trying to teach or penacilize her Armys Han Solo....for doing EXACTLY what Luke Han and herself did in their youth but this time around resulting in failure. Usually because they hadnt been. They became arrogant with promotions and success now being overconfident Either one of two things. They are really good at their job and their recklessness only now came to bite them in their ass or they reached the high rank doing well and then became arrogant. They are very *very* good at what they do. so good that some conduct can be overlooked Generally its because theyre incredibly good at their job in the first place and the consequences never caught up to them or they got arrogant enough that they screw things up. Or this is the moment when all other punishments fail to deter such behaviour that demotion is the only other alternative to firing them. Keep in mind some organisations see demotion as a lastresort punishment. Usually it lends to someone being blackballed from promotions first and foremost. A good example of this is the classic detective series *Inspector Morse* where its repeatedly stated that Morse is far more capable as a police officer than his rank permits and should be far above his current rank... but hes crossed so many influencial people over his areer as a police detective that its killed his career aspirations. Same for *A Touch of Frost* where Jack Frost refuses to play the political ball game within the police and the one time hes actually going to be promoted he screws up badly enough that he instead ends up on a monthslong suspension instead for getting too rough with a paedophile he caught redhanded. Its also either a case of You fucked up *really* bad this time or its a PR thing they were able to cover up past mistakes but something happened that was so big that its led to public outrage. A good example of both the former *and* the latter from the last paragraph is the film *S.W.A.T* where we see two SWAT officers disobey orders when handling a hostage situation in a bank so that they can resolve it in a faster manner. This is treated as a typical actionhero prologue of any other action movie... Until the citys police chief *and* the head of SWAT hauls the two officers responsible into his office into an office and screams their heads off about how badly they screwed up considering one of them chose to speed up the takedown of the bad guys by willfully shooting a hostage. Not only did it lead to the press coming down on their asses for blatant recklessness but the hostage who got shot is now suing because of what happened. **SWAT head** SWAT means Special Weapons and Tactics. *Where were your tactics out there?* A good example of just the latter is what saw Stabler leaving in Law and Order Special Victims Unit. Elliot Stabler is notorious outside the shows fandom as being one of the most rabid cops out there regularly abusing suspects and breaching their rights out of his own sense of justice. But ultimately its not any of these that gets him kicked off the force although the press digging this up is a contributing factor. Its because ironically he did the right thing in shooting a dangerous and unstable suspect dead after they opened fire in the middle of the police station killing a suspect as well as wounding officers. The fact that the person he killed was a teenaged girl makes things worse. Because they are that good that you want them to stay and are willing to put up with their idiosyncrasies as longest it is beneficial to you Depends on the individual but battlefield commissions or needbased promotion can sometimes pull people who wouldn’t otherwise qualify into positions of authority. If you are the most capable person left alive in your unit then that kinda makes you in charge by default. If you then manage to accomplish some impressive goals under heavy fire despite massive casualties you may get attention from generals and stuff. Then maybe a general needs some heroic stories to inspire everyone with gives an embellished account of your actions and grants you promotions. But the new rank comes with responsibilities that don’t mesh well with your skills and attitude. So now you are constantly in trouble because you don’t know how to do the things that are expected of you. But boy is the first part of that story inspiring to the new kids. Poe was really good and trusted. Part of a reason he was being held accountable was because they wanted to groom him for a leadership position but felt he was too reckless Casey Ryback didnt have a history of recklessness or insubordination. He punched out his commanding officer after an operation in Panama went bad but was otherwise a good SEAL. Maverick was a great pilot but it wouldnt surprise me if his reputation of not following orders meant that he was promoted later than his peers. It certainly meant that he wasnt a candidate for a flag officer promotion. Its stated outright that he kept flying because Iceman manages to keep finding a place for him. Id assume that works in the same way that gamblers dont start out by immediately betting away their house. Its a habit that builds up over time. Theres a meth lab down at 567 Mala Vista. The operators are probably armed to the hilt with illegal weapons. I want you to get down there and see what you can find! I dont want any problems. Just take em down by the books. Now get over there the mayors all over my ass on this one! Oh and deputies you screw this up and Ill have you working graveyard shift behind a desk! Move it! Post 90 [gen fiction] How would time looping affect someones brain? If someone from earth starting to be stuck in a 24 hour time loop how would it affect their brain? Could a human brain be able to function in a time loop? **Reminders for Commenters** * All responses must be A sincere B polite and C strictly watsonian in nature. If watsonian or doylist is new to you please review the full rules . * No edition wars or gripings about creators/owners of works. Doylist griping about Star Wars in particular is subject to **permanent ban on first offense**. * We are not here to discuss or complain about the real world. * Questions about who would prevail in a conflict/competition not just combat fit better on r/whowouldwin. Questions about very openended hypotheticals fit better on r/whatiffiction. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* It depends on the type of time loop. For example doctor who timeloop in heaven sent doctor doesnt remember anything. In ground hog the character that time loops remembers. For one if they remember the loop then unless you believe that memories are stored in some kind of immaterial soul then at least the part of their brain that stores memories is not being looped. Considering how complicated and distributed human memory storage is and that all other physical changes are reverted in the loop indicates that the looped individuals brain is not actually being temporally looped but instead reconstructed at the beginning of each loop subtly differently to include the memories of the previous loop. Assume the reconstruction is able to revert gross brain trauma that killed the individual in the previous loop if they say shot their brains out then then coupled with the memory integration process the reconstruction process can likely also revert any minor wearandtear on the brain. Look Movie called ground hogs day with bill murray over the time loop he was trapped for 8 years 8 months of constant loop from killing himself and predicting everything that people would do and he got to know people well over the many years. He was used to pain and had high tolerance built up but he was clearly tired and drained of being stuck even this is a basic version of time loop whilst other movies have people being hunted or painful death each reset or they’re body is wearing thin as each loop is physically killing them slowly if they don’t get out. If someone from earth starting to be stuck in a 24 hour time loop how would it affect their brain? Could a human brain be able to function in a time loop? Physically most Time Loops have someone be completely reset brain and all. If changes were kept their brain would still be dead upon reset if they died in a loop and that would be the end of that. Star Treks Cause and Effect has a fullreset time loop for example. Other than some minor deja vu everyone is returned to their condition at the start of the loop. Other than that most stories with timeloops tend to either have some way of transferring memories or consciousness over time which implies some nonphysical property not tied to brain structure that gets moved across. Groundhog day for example has the main character keep their memories across time loops despite dying. Post 91 [Star Wars] When Vader tells Luke that it was too late for him to turn back now does that imply Vader DID think about turning back to the light? And if so when WAS it not too late for him to turn back? Vader seems to be more open around Luke and in the scene where Luke pleads with Vader to turn his back on the Empire theres a hint of desperation/regret in Vaders voice when he says that its too late. To me this shows that at some point after turning Anakin/Vader did contemplate leaving or turning against the Empire. When would it have been not too late then? Is Vaders reluctance to turn stem from the fear of Palpatine or is he simply ashamed to return to the light? **Reminders for Commenters** * All responses must be A sincere B polite and C strictly watsonian in nature. If watsonian or doylist is new to you please review the full rules . * No edition wars or gripings about creators/owners of works. Doylist griping about Star Wars in particular is subject to **permanent ban on first offense**. * We are not here to discuss or complain about the real world. * Questions about who would prevail in a conflict/competition not just combat fit better on r/whowouldwin. Questions about very openended hypotheticals fit better on r/whatiffiction. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Did he think about it? Oh yes. But as soon as he awoke in that suit... Well heres how the novelisation puts it. This is how it feels to be Anakin Skywalker forever The first dawn of light in your universe brings pain. The light burns you. It will always burn you. Part of you will always lie upon black glass sand beside a lake of fire while flames chew upon your flesh. You can hear yourself breathing. It comes hard and harsh and it scrapes nerves already raw but you cannot stop it. You can never stop it. You cannot even slow it down. You dont even have lungs anymore. Mechanisms hardwired into your chest breathe for you. They will pump oxygen into your bloodstream forever. *Lord Vader? Lord Vader can you hear me?* And you cant not in the way you once did. Sensors in the shell that prisons your head trickle meaning directly into your brain. You open your scorchedpale eyes optical sensors integrate light and shadow into a hideous simulacrum of the world around you. Or perhaps the simulacrum is perfect and it is the world that is hideous. *Padme? Are you here? Are you all right?* you try to say but another voice speaks for you out from the vocabulator that serves you for burnedaway lips and tongue and throat. Padme? Are you here? Are you all right? *Im very sorry Lord Vader. Im afraid she died. It seems in your anger you killed her.* This burns hotter than the lava had. No... no it is not *possible!* You loved her. You will always love her. You could never will her death. Never. But you remember... You remember *all* of it. You remember the dragon that you brought Vader forth from your heart to slay. You remember the cold venom in Vaders blood. You remember the furnace of Vaders fury and the black hatred of seizing her throat to silence her lying mouth— And there is one blazing moment in which you finally understand that there was no dragon. That there was no Vader. That there was only you. Only Anakin Skywalker. That it was all you. Is you. Only you. You did it. You killed her. You killed her because finally when you *could* have saved her when you could have gone *away* with her when you could have been thinking about *her* you were thinking about *yourself...* It is in this blazing moment that you finally understand the trap of the dark side the final cruelty of the Sith— Because now your *self* is all you will ever have. And you rage and scream and reach through the Force to crush the shadow who has destroyed you but you are so far less now than what you were you are more than half machine you are like a painter gone blind a composer gone deaf you can remember where the power was but the power you can touch is only a memory and so with all your worlddestroying fury it is only droids around you that implode and equipment and the table on which you were strapped shatters and in the end you cannot touch the shadow. In the end you do not even want to. In the end the shadow is all you have left. Because the shadow understands you the shadow forgives you the shadow gathers you unto itself — And within your furnace heart you burn in your own flame. This is how it feels to be Anakin Skywalker.. Forever... I took it as him having committed too many atrocities and genocides go be saved way worse than at his Sith beginning when he hadnt done anything yet besides like a couple killings which he could somewhat repent from. It was too late for him when he made the choice to turn on Master Windu. \ or is he simply ashamed to return to the light? IMO a combination of shame and burning down everything good in his life. Anakin simply doesnt know how to be a functional person. Started life as a slave and then was dependent on the Order to provide safety housing food and clothes and then dependent on Palpatine after that. His entire life is a continuous cycle of being dependent and subordinate to another entity. On the other hand he knows what he knows helping to murder a council member means he has no choice but to hedge his bets on Palpatine finding a way to save Padme. And after that fails what does he have left? Just his self loathing. In a way I think he believes he doesnt deserve to be saved. It takes the gentle son who more resembles Padme than him to remind Anakin that there was more to life than stewing in anger and misery. Vaders commitment to the Emperor was already wavering pretty badly when he said that to Luke. If anything he was justifying his choice as much to himself as to his son. Once youve decapitated younglings its forever too late for you Shame since anakin committed too many atrocities to even think he deserves the chance to return to the light side since one of his first actions as a sith was to go to the jedi temple and slaughter the padawan children. I like to think there were moments when Vader did contemplate making a change. However its important to understand that for Force sensitives the Dark and Light sides arent just abstract ideasthey can *feel* these energies. And as Vader continued to lean on his regret sorrow and anger the pull of the Dark side only grew for him. And that pull *was* too strong until he was presented with the only choice that outweighed it which was the life of his son. Do I think it was truly too late? No I think the opportunity to turn around is right on time for anyone that wants to make change... but it only matters how he felt about it and he was resigned. It was never too late but he certainly believes that he was unredeemable. It benefits Palpatine for Vader to believe that theres no way for him to turn away from the dark side after falling. My interpretation has always been that contrary to Yoda and Kenobis opinion the Dark Side is not clearly black. The light and dark sides are always in a constant battle with one side dominating. Every Jedi knows both sides as does every Sith. With Anakin in particular the fight is probably particularly big because he fell so low from so high up. Vader constantly fights within himself full of pain and hatred. He has killed his wife betrayed all his friends the Jedi and the Republic and is trapped in his armor. He was never able to reach his full potential and was always under the rod of Palpatine. He knew that Palpatine actually wanted Anakin unharmed. Vader never killed his master as is the custom of the Sith. The regret in the delivery of the line suggests a lot more than the line itself. Its one of my favourite Vader lines because of it. Its fantastic delivery with so much gravitas. Previously we have huge thunderous stomping bad guy emotionless other than anger and a sort of snarky superiority. The delivery humanises him somewhat by showing a vulnerability and that perhaps hes started questioning the veracity of his decisions which of course eventually blooms into him throwing Sheev down a shaft. I dont think hes questioning his loyalty to the Empire although he has clearly thought of overthrowing ol Sheev. I think its the opposite a resignation an *Ive made my choice and I have to see it through. Im with the Empire until the end.* I kind of read into it like he regrets the path his life is on and where its taken him and what its made him do theres an awareness of the atrocities hes caused and done though in ROTJ at time of production they werent really expanded on much Im not even certain they were mentioned as such and feels that because of those choices and the position hes in hes irredemable in his own mind. He considered turning back to the light in the dark lord of the sith comic but he rejected it upon bleeding his lightsaber crystal Before he kills the planet of people when he started choking people to death for failing him He could not let go of his guilt i suspect which just fueld is anger even more. He was also in constant pain so it could not be helped. Uh Anakin didn’t kill Padme. She died from childbirth. What? Dying of broken heart is not a legal criminal action in their universe. He started his fall with a selfish choice and it ended with a still selfish choice. He destroyed thousands of families but he saved his son so he is good now is not something anyone would say is worthy of redemption Post 92 [Emesis Blue] What did Pyro say when they ambushed Spy and Soldier? Spy replies with *YOU* drop it! but the dialogue is really hard to make out. **Reminders for Commenters** * All responses must be A sincere B polite and C strictly watsonian in nature. If watsonian or doylist is new to you please review the full rules . * No edition wars or gripings about creators/owners of works. Doylist griping about Star Wars in particular is subject to **permanent ban on first offense**. * We are not here to discuss or complain about the real world. * Questions about who would prevail in a conflict/competition not just combat fit better on r/whowouldwin. Questions about very openended hypotheticals fit better on r/whatiffiction. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Post 93 [Minecraft Java comparing to bedrock] Why dont cats hiss at phantoms in Minecraft Bedrock Edition? Why do cats hiss at phantoms in Minecraft Java Edition but not in Minecraft Bedrock Edition? Also Eystreem actually once tested the fears of certain minecraft mobs to see if they are real/true/fact or fake/clickbait/cap/false. Link **Reminders for Commenters** * All responses must be A sincere B polite and C strictly watsonian in nature. If watsonian or doylist is new to you please review the full rules . * No edition wars or gripings about creators/owners of works. Doylist griping about Star Wars in particular is subject to **permanent ban on first offense**. * We are not here to discuss or complain about the real world. * Questions about who would prevail in a conflict/competition not just combat fit better on r/whowouldwin. Questions about very openended hypotheticals fit better on r/whatiffiction. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Reminder about the attached vid that vid was made on minecraft java edition. Post 94 [John Wick] The secret gold coin underworld seems to be using Vic20 personal computers c.1982. What are they doing with such things? Are they easily turned into terminals or is there something useful about such primitive machines? **Reminders for Commenters** * All responses must be A sincere B polite and C strictly watsonian in nature. If watsonian or doylist is new to you please review the full rules . * No edition wars or gripings about creators/owners of works. Doylist griping about Star Wars in particular is subject to **permanent ban on first offense**. * We are not here to discuss or complain about the real world. * Questions about who would prevail in a conflict/competition not just combat fit better on r/whowouldwin. Questions about very openended hypotheticals fit better on r/whatiffiction. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Probably some old not on the internet system thats untracable. Using ULF radio transmitters between sites. So very low bandwidth but very hard to block / detect No network access. Computers nowadays have network cards/WiFi as standard parts of the motherboard and with network protocols hardwired directly into the OS. This means they can be made vulnerable to hacking just by sticking an Ethernet cable into them. Older computers? Youd have to manually install everything to make it all work and nowadays youd be pretty hardpressed to find network cards for the Vic20 expansion slots. This isnt exclusive to the High Table by the way. Government agencies use outdated and otherwise obsolete computers because 1 theyre more secure since hacking into them requires physical access and 2 its too difficult to replace the entire infrastructure that everything is bases around. Proprietary systems once started are hard to upgrade. Colleges are still teaching cobal because it’s still used in banking mainframes. If it’s stable unhacked and expensive to replace there is motivation to keep it rolling. Id say it looks like the reason is for two layers of security first those Commodores are likely not networked directly and need to be reached in person to access and second they likely have some bespoke software noone outside knows *how* to use both due to the age of the very system and the uniqueness of the software. Likely theres an inclusion of very hardtoreproduce intricacies in printouts explicitly as a third layer of security for printed bounties and the like too pretty much everything is still done on paper and face to face rather than online this is not just due to it being an old organization but because these old methods are significantly harder to penetrate in a hightech world. Theyre the greatest. I mean ... ***the whole computer is built into the keyboard*** and you just plug it into a TV. Its possible that when they switched to computers they have their own proprietary system that utilized tech they could by in bulk because it was outdated and being junked at that point in time. The probably arent literally using VIC20 OS or the 6502 chip to do all the data and encryption but purely as an interface like a dumb terminal to their mainframe system which might be a completely closed loop that has no software ancestor to the outside world. Nuclear missile silos for the longest time used ancient computers with the large 8 floppy discs. Apparently the missile activate password was left at 0000. The upside to this computer system was that its impossible to hack. The computer is so old and not connected to the internet the only way to hijack a missile silo is to physically be inside the missile silo command bunker. That would require shooting through a large number of armed guards and cutting through nuclear blast doors all the while every branch of the US military and law enforcement is rapidly moving to the scene to secure the under attack missile silo. Reinforcements arriving via helicopter will probably get there before any attacker can cut through a blast door designed to survive a nuclear explosion. Actually they use both VIC20’s and C64’s. In many ways this is the essence of the phrase If it aint broke dont fix it. With organizations that use customized services often any upgrades require upgrading everything. So its not always as easy as just buying a bunch of Thinkpads for the office and expecting them to interface with the rest of the system. Modern information security is awful. Everything is tracked and integrated to feed data back to the corporate servers and build profiles on users to better target ads. While you can choose not to connect a laptop to wifi it might still come with built in wifi network card and antenna and all kinds of processes constantly looking to connect or storing data for the opportunity to send it. That can be exploited. Thats why even today when youd think that security issues should have been patched leaving your phone at the front desk is still the best security method compared to trusting something like airplane mode or trusting that it is actually powered off when you tell it to power off or trusting that the camera and mic arent recording simply because theres no glowing dot on the screen. Its so it cant be hacked and traced. They use old fashioned pen and paper with the odd bit of old fashioned tech. Security through obscurity. Old tech is way harder to hack because it doesn’t just easily connect to anything that has a digital pulse. So were currently on the **Inter**net which is entirely public and connects private computers to servers and servers to ISPs. But before that went public in the early 90s depending on how rich your family there was the InTRAnet which was private and had no ISPs. It was entirely computer to computer and server to server for major organizations. It was the prosumer middleground following the militarys Arpanet which was just PC to PC and the server was just a big PC at headquarters. The advantage to using the Intranet in the modern age is the privacy. It is an entirely separate network to the Internet. Every organization has their own version. And those 80s consoles are tailormade for it. I know because when I temped at Social Services I had to work on one. Learning how to roll back and use a PC that doesnt even have a **mouse** took me like a week. Honestly the High Table seems extremely concerned with aesthetics so odds are that the choice of a superbespoke deliberately antiquated computer system is just as practical as the big chalkboard being updated in real time by the rockabilly secretary corps their five star hotel hidey holes with massive collections of antiques and art and the engraving on their super special single purpose official dueling pistols. Its not there to be efficient its there to be a display of wealth and power for the benefit of an extremely limited audience themselves. Post 95 [Short Circuit] How was NOVA’s S.A.I.N.T. program ever considered a viable weapons platform? In the film were told the robots could carry a 25megaton bomb right up the middle of Main Street Moscow possibly as a second strike weapon after a strategic nuclear exchange. Id love to know how NOVA convinced the US government this was viable when the robots Do not seem weatherproof. They were taken inside due to rain and obviously were vulnerable to thunderstorms given the effect the lighting had on Number 5. Im fairly sure thee are thunderstorms in Russia. I mean we was connected to a generator at the time... but That exposes another weakness the need to recharge once a day as we see Johnny 5 doing in Short Circuit 2. Where exactly are the robots going to find a power source if their mission to hide out lasts more than a day or so? Actually are not that autonomous. Everything we saw them do during the NOVA demonstration was under close supervision of the technicians using several computers to control their position and actions. Are able to be damaged by light machine gun fire. In the film we see Number 5s arm is disabled by a few stray bullets from NOVAs cleanup squadron. The robots have various exposed wiring and components particularly around the arms and neck which could easily be damaged or disconnected. Which brings me to their woeful melee combat skills. The laser weapon is extremely powerful but the robots cant turn quickly and could not bring the laser to bear on multiple targets from different directions. They dont seem to have any close quarters weapons apart from their arms which have limited degrees of freedom. As we see in Short Circuit 2 if the robot cannot use its laser they can be damaged to the point of almost being disabled by two thugs wielding crowbars. No armour plating no redundancy no protection against EMP. How were these things supposed to achieve their stated design aim as a Strategic Artificially Intelligent Nuclear Transport? They seem like theyd break if you left them outside overnight. How was NOVA able to nearly convince a Senator to push a bill funding the project at least before Number 5 went rogue and the programme was deemed a failure? Was this just militaryindustrial grift combined with witless Cold War jingoism? **Reminders for Commenters** * All responses must be A sincere B polite and C strictly watsonian in nature. If watsonian or doylist is new to you please review the full rules . * No edition wars or gripings about creators/owners of works. Doylist griping about Star Wars in particular is subject to **permanent ban on first offense**. * We are not here to discuss or complain about the real world. * Questions about who would prevail in a conflict/competition not just combat fit better on r/whowouldwin. Questions about very openended hypotheticals fit better on r/whatiffiction. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* The SAINT project robots were just a proof of concept intended to demonstrate their potential to the audience and get some additional funding from the govt. Stuff like armor hardened circuitry better weapons capacity those would have all been added during later development phases. The intended use of the robots would probably be surgical strike missions not closequarters combat maybe with some reconnaissance capabilities thrown in. Its probably just one of many DODfunded projects with similar intentions. Unfortunately this one is going to be swatted down in favor of airborne drones... first you get the funding to make a bunch for the military to test then get more funding to make them work the way they want. we need the be the first country with a robot army! I think #5 was caught offguard by the thugs and hurt emotionally by Oscars betrayal. He handles Stephanies abusive ex and Oscar after he goes punk Holding out for a Hero just fine. Unliving robots set to kill are probably more formidable. Also they could have been planning to add outer armor after the demonstration. 15 were likely prototype proofsofconcept that could have eventually been iterated upon adinfinitum. Once costs go down they may have become comparable in cost to training and equipping human soldiers who are also vulnerable to small arms fire. Ultimately N.O.V.A.s plan could have been similar to the one Dick Jones had at OCP Who cares if it works as long as the government pays for it? Theyre not supposed to be effective weapons systems theyre supposed to get a fat government contract for parts and maintenance for the next 50 years. As others have said Johnny and the other SAINT units are the first generation design just to show the brass the basic idea works before getting the big fat contract and building the real thing. They just need to be good enough to trundle about a controlled environment not to go on a proper attack run. Once they get the big check then itll be time to stress about things like environmental sealing armor playing and a set of big nasty popout bowie knives in the forearms for dealing with anyone trying to go hand to hand. Youre forgetting the time period. In 1986 when the Saints presentation happens the robots are preposterously advanced. Yes theyre limited in some ways but these guys achieved a sapiencecapable computer system and strapped it to a bomb disposal robot in freaking 1986. After solving that monster I think the officials overseeing the development will be plenty motivated to approve funding to solve those issues. Post 96 [Invincible] Can you kill a Viltrumite via teleporting foreign objects into their brain? Author One_Food9894 **Reminders for Commenters** * All responses must be A sincere B polite and C strictly watsonian in nature. If watsonian or doylist is new to you please review the full rules . * No edition wars or gripings about creators/owners of works. Doylist griping about Star Wars in particular is subject to **permanent ban on first offense**. * We are not here to discuss or complain about the real world. * Questions about who would prevail in a conflict/competition not just combat fit better on r/whowouldwin. Questions about very openended hypotheticals fit better on r/whatiffiction. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Maybe. A few Viltrumites have been shown recovering from injuries that had a fair amount of brain splatter Conquest for example but a big enough object would probably do the trick. Their real weak spot is said to be their heart so that might be a better target for someone with the ability to telefrag people You probably could. Their insides canonically are much more vulnerable than their exterior surface. A sudden chunk of mass in their brain would probably cause massive ruptures in the organ as the new foreign object displaces the brain matter. incapacitate them for a while probably but I imagine that they can heal from that in time. Assuming the objects are small enough to not completely destroy the entire brain. The ability to teleport matter inside of a aanother object is probably far more broken from a physics perspective than simply killing someone from organ failure. All of it depends on the exact physics of the teleporting. 1. Rick Sanchez style. If it makes a wormhole that you walk through and appear on the other side then this probably wouldnt work due to pressure and resistance. As you try to push the object into the location of the brain the brain will push back. This will have the exact same effect as trying to trying to push an object against the brain during open brain surgery. Depending on how tough virtumite organs are it might have no effect. Like trying to walk through a brick wall. 2. Merge style. If the two objects just merge together during teleportation then I would treat this like a scratenal wound to the head. 3. Expanding bubble style. Usually these require empty space to work and will fail to teleport if space is not available. If empty space is not required we have some truly broken physics. If the teleporting object is technically indestructible during transport the the virtumite is dead. If not then probably the weaker object is destroyed. Destroyed object might just ooze out of annoyed virtumite. Sure why not? I think the GDA wouldve tried that. They could possibly recover. However it would kill them if you did it to their heart. If you can teleport something inside of someone you can teleport something from inside of someone to outside. So turn their innies into outies You 100% could. In the comics we see they are not at all immune to things destroying them from the inside or their heads being destroyed. But you cant half ass it. They recover from a lot. I am going to take this opportunity to ask how do the Viltrumites fly faster than the speed of light. I never understand how they can fly such vast distances so quickly. You could probably kill one by teleporting their brain into their own ass Yes you certainly can. In the later end of the comics !Robot kills Mohawkvincible by shooting a buzzsaw drone into his esophagus. The saw was normal and Robot says he gambled that Viltrumite insides were much weaker than the outsides.!&lt Post 97 [Heroes] Why didnt Arthur steal Adams powers earlier if they had him locked up ? Or just use some of Adams blood to heal his crippled self ? Author Extra_Impression_428 **Reminders for Commenters** * All responses must be A sincere B polite and C strictly watsonian in nature. If watsonian or doylist is new to you please review the full rules . * No edition wars or gripings about creators/owners of works. Doylist griping about Star Wars in particular is subject to **permanent ban on first offense**. * We are not here to discuss or complain about the real world. * Questions about who would prevail in a conflict/competition not just combat fit better on r/whowouldwin. Questions about very openended hypotheticals fit better on r/whatiffiction. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Firstly they didnt really have him locked up. He had only recently *resurfaced....*and was captured only a short time earlier. Second Arthur doesnt want to be just healed. He wants Adams regeneration power. No reason to beat around the bush and get healed first. Hell be able to heal constantly once he steals Adams power. Post 98 [Invincible] Why are most supers Bricks or Brawlers? For the majority of superpowered people in the world their schtick is hitting really hard and being able to get hit really hard aside basic flight and some power blasts now and then not a lot do much else. Its not exclusive of course Atom Eve being the standout exception but its skewed towards punchers more than other superhero worlds. Does this world simply not produce energy manipulators psychics and shapeshifters to name a few alternatives that other worlds do. Kinda wonder how Invincibles world would react if an Xavierlevel telepath showed up or a Zatannalevel sorcerer. **Reminders for Commenters** * All responses must be A sincere B polite and C strictly watsonian in nature. If watsonian or doylist is new to you please review the full rules . * No edition wars or gripings about creators/owners of works. Doylist griping about Star Wars in particular is subject to **permanent ban on first offense**. * We are not here to discuss or complain about the real world. * Questions about who would prevail in a conflict/competition not just combat fit better on r/whowouldwin. Questions about very openended hypotheticals fit better on r/whatiffiction. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* they have other people its just this world naturally makes more bricks. they could survive a sorcererbecause I think they have in the past however a telepath could cause a lot of damage. There are people with other types of powers the lava guy Martian Man/Shapesmith Mr. Liu Machine Head Isotope Green Ghost Aquarus Duplikate Rexplode demons etc. theyre just usually not nearly as powerful/dangerous as the higher tier flying bricks like Viltrumites and the Immortal. Their abilities can either be tanked by the Viltrumites highly resilient smartatom based physiology or theyre not very fast and durable compared to Viltrumites and can just get speedblitzed and torn apart. The New Guardians are some of the strongest heros left after OmniMan killed the old Guardians. So everyone else just is less relevant to the conflicts in the show. I dont know of any with higher level hax type abilities except for Atom Eve. Not accounting for any particular metaphysics bricks make sense from a superheroic perspective in general. Being tougher is a desirable characteristic for anything where being on fire or exploding things with your mind might not be. If youre going into dangerous work especially being able to shrug off things that would kill others helps. Not only would the survival rate for heroes be higher if theyre tougher but the recruitment rate would be higher on the basis of expected survival. There were other heroes. Without super toughness they died. So there arent many non bricks left Kinda wonder how Invincibles world would react if an Xavierlevel telepath showed up or a Zatannalevel sorcerer. Both of them would be seriously worldbreaking in Invincible. I kinda like the fact that the Imageverse with a few notable exceptions is kinda realer than Marvel or DC. Possibly because of Nolan he knew he was severely outclassing just about every Brick or Brawler the earth was producing so anyone with odd powers that could prove problematic for viltrumites to fight would get taken out secretly before they could master their powers enough to be a serious threat. In that world *any* power that doesnt include some sort of durability or other means of survival means you get turned into chunky salsa within your first few battles especially without team mates. Kinda wonder how Invincibles world would react if an Xavierlevel telepath showed up or a Zatannalevel sorcerer. Theyve probably shown up and had their head punched off by the first person with super strength *and* resistance to either telepathy or magic. well the ones that couldnt tank supervillains exploding things around them died. logically natural selection The best Watsonian answer Ive got is that the people who were not bricks died en mass because 1. They were not bricks so less durable. 2. Everybody including and especially the bricks are epic level assholes so theyre very happy to kill people who arent them especially people with better powers. 3. The nonbricks die fast enough they dont get to reproduce often and spread their genes through the population. Post 99 [World of Warcraft] do the expansions take place on a timeline or is it just kind of like a family guy or Simpsons type of thing? Author scarecrowunderthe **Reminders for Commenters** * All responses must be A sincere B polite and C strictly watsonian in nature. If watsonian or doylist is new to you please review the full rules . * No edition wars or gripings about creators/owners of works. Doylist griping about Star Wars in particular is subject to **permanent ban on first offense**. * We are not here to discuss or complain about the real world. * Questions about who would prevail in a conflict/competition not just combat fit better on r/whowouldwin. Questions about very openended hypotheticals fit better on r/whatiffiction. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* They take place on a timeline though I’m not sure how various time travel related events work we do know that events are roughly chronological” for example Garrosh’s Iron Horde was formed after his defeat in Panderia. Each expansion takes place after the other with differing amounts of time passing. Burning Crusade happens after Ragnaros Cthun and Kelthuzad are defeated WotLK happens after Kiljaeden is repelled at the Sunwell etc. Speaking from a Doylist perspective actually *playing* it is a different story entirely because theyve revamped the vanilla world with Cataclysm and theyve now introduced Chromie time and all that but its very straightforward in Watsonian terms. Not only does everything happen on a inuniverse timeline it’s actually pretyy welly chronicled and includes the events of Warcraft 1 2 and 3. Azeroth splits its calendar CE style at the opening of the Dark Portal that first linked it to Draenor. That’s year 0 and the beginning of the First War Warcraft 1. In year 4 we get Warcraft 2 the Second War which officially lasts for two years and then a chunk of minor conflict for ~14 years until the Third War kicks off around the year 20. World of Warcraft begins in year 25. From there the timeline gets breakneck Burning Crusade in 26 Wrath of the Lich King near the end of 26 and into 27 Cataclysm in 28 Mists of Pandaria in 30 Warlords of Draenor in 31 Legion in 32 Battle For Azeroth which is also the Fourth War” in 33 Shadowlands in 35 Small timeskip postShadowlands until Dragonflight in 40 And then current The War Within kicking off in 41. So all told slightly more time has passed in universe than out Warcraft 1 released in 1994 so 31 years ago but it’s woobly since it’s only been 21 years since WoW specifically released and only 16 inuniverse years. So the setting is both faster and slower moving than irl haha. Post 100 [The Simpsons] why Lenny and Carl dont have a stronger connection with the Simpson children despite their close friendship with Homer? Author AfraidPenalty757Post Text Granted the show rarely does continuity other then Milhouse parents divorce and remarriage Abes girlfriend who died from a broken heart. the family got Santa Little helper during Christmas Bart and Lisa are 10 and 8. Mona and Maude Flanders dying. So there that but still. I think if one look at the Classic Simpsons at least 18 or 9. as the closest thing to say Canon wise. Then I think the original intention at least in terms of how the show first presented is that Lenny and Carl werent childhood friends for Homer but more like Shallow Coworkers who Homer made once he first got his job at the power plant after Bart was born or when Marge was pregnant with him. Same with Moe. The only friend that is Homers childhood friend was Barney who was part of Homers high school. Heck in The episode the Way we was we dont see Lenny and Carl in Homers High School which supports the idea that originally they become friends with Homer after he first got his job at the power plant heck they didnt quit with him once he first leave the power plant initially before getting the job back after Marge was pregnant with Maggie. But as we know the show continued and then Modern Simpsons made Lenny Carl and Moe childhood friends with Homer with Barney taking a step back as a background likely because the popularity of Lenny Carl and Moe from fans and the writers. Heck even in the Simpson movie we see Lenny and Carl at Homer and Marges wedding through their wedding tape. Regardless though I know that just because a coworker and a friend doesnt mean you interact with youre best friend wife and kids. But still it is weird that Lenny and Carl dont interact with Marge and the kids and when they do they called a woman like in the episode Homerland or kinda rude despite knowing Homer is their best friend. Like for an example my parents specifically my dad have a lot of coworkers and I get to know and meet with them even if it is small they still know that this is the son of their coworker and friend. But besides that I do think it would interesting to have an future episode say Season 35 or 36 or even 40 Yes I know the whole zombie Simpsons but still it would be nice to see. where we get to see Lenny and Carl not only interact with Marge and the kids more but also maybe having to developed a stronger connection with the kids by being fatherfigures or in this case unclefigures to Bart Lisa and Maggie. But overall what do you think of this idea is a good thought experiment I have or probably not? **Reminders for Commenters** * All responses must be A sincere B polite and C strictly watsonian in nature. If watsonian or doylist is new to you please review the full rules . * No edition wars or gripings about creators/owners of works. Doylist griping about Star Wars in particular is subject to **permanent ban on first offense**. * We are not here to discuss or complain about the real world. * Questions about who would prevail in a conflict/competition not just combat fit better on r/whowouldwin. Questions about very openended hypotheticals fit better on r/whatiffiction. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Why would they? If they were married and had kids it might be justifiable. But theyre both drunks who dont seem to do much with their lives. Theyre supposedly Homers best friends but they hardly ever visit the Simpsons at home and Homer only sees them at Moes or at work. I didnt get close to my dads bar buddies until I was a teenager. It’s a pretty normal representation of someone with a family and friends who don’t have a wife and kids. You see your friend when they have a night out and that’s about it I see my best mate and his kids near weekly and I don’t have kids but I’m aware that’s not the usual. You have to remember the 3 of them are also drunks they spend most nights at a bar and they are there before Homer gets there usually. Even then we see they are known to the kids as homers friends so you can assume they are somewhat around the kids for bigger events Because Homer uses them as a distraction from his unsatisfying home life. Also what are you talking about? Everyone loves Lenny. I have 3 relly good friends that Ive been friends with since before my children were all born. Two of them helped me build up my first borns room. They were at every birthday for over a decade. Two of my kids might know all three of their names. Im a guy with no kids who has friends with kids. I can sometimes get the kids names right. Often I can remember the number but not names. Kids arent why Im friends my friends. Just because we dont see them interacting much doesnt mean these characters never interact. Lisa especially seems to know who exactly her dads friends she knows Barney her and Bart are distraught when they hear Lenny is injured pretty sure they know Carl as well. Well Carls just Homers friend through the bar which he uses as an escape from his family. Lenny however is beloved in the Simpsons household. When Marge hears from Homer that Lenny is going to the hospital both her and the children are distressed to learn there Id bad news about him. Maybe then goes on to sew a few needle points for him and is more relieved to learn that Lenny is okay than that Homer lied to her. It varies based on how often youre in the same place. My dads friends rarely hung out with him at our house and so never were around us much so while we knew them we didnt have much in the way of a personal relationship. They all showed up for my dads Memorial and made all the if you need anything sounds but then flaked and havent seen any of them in the 24 years since then. I want nothing to with my friends from the bars children if I wanted to put up with kids Id have my own so maybe that Theres a moment in The Simpsons Game where Bart and Lisa rescue the two from a logging factory and are surprised to realize that they dont know the kids names. Their response is that they dont really interact with them that often. Post 101 [Star Wars] Why did the Trade Federation have a seat in the Senate? Why would the Republic allow a megacorporation to have a senator to represent it? **Reminders for Commenters** * All responses must be A sincere B polite and C strictly watsonian in nature. If watsonian or doylist is new to you please review the full rules . * No edition wars or gripings about creators/owners of works. Doylist griping about Star Wars in particular is subject to **permanent ban on first offense**. * We are not here to discuss or complain about the real world. * Questions about who would prevail in a conflict/competition not just combat fit better on r/whowouldwin. Questions about very openended hypotheticals fit better on r/whatiffiction. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Money given to the right people. Buy enough people and you can get anything. The Republic is corrupt enough for that. Also the Trade Federation controls systems of its own and all systems that are part of the Republic have representation. My thought is that it is possible that the Trade federation was the nominal government for a planet or group of planets. To put it in contemporary Earth terms The Trade Federation is like the United Arab Emirates and the Senate was more like our United Nations at the time. The Trade Federation has a lot of money. Senator Lott Dodd by proxy has a lot of money. The Republic wasnt exactly a squeaky clean corruption free political body either. Officially hes distanced himself from Nut Gunray anyway Im pretty sure he has a line in TCW where he throws Gunray under the bus and calls him an extremist that doesnt represent the views of the Trade Federation. The Trade Federation and Nemoidia were basically the same polity so the Neimoidian representative was essentially the Trade Federation representative. Same reason they had Elected Queens Senators Governors and Hereditary Monarchs. The Republic was a coalition of semiindependent nation states and they each had their own fairly autonomus system of leadrership. The Mon Cal Quarren Wookies Trandoshen and Bothans all had small colonial empires with multiple worlds under their sway and yet they all apparently had one Senate booth apiece. In Legends Corellia was an entire *sector* of space with at least five major habitable worlds and several intelligent species and they elected a representative from their sector to stand in the Senate for all of them Human and nonhuman alike. Legends also had at least one sector run and represented by Corporations as well as the Bacta Planet Thyferra where the majority of all Bacta was produced which was run by one of several merchant houses that took turns ruling with their designated CEO being the Head of State. But the Senate had democratically elected leaders oligarchs dynastic rulers royalty clan elders priests CEOs and other groups. So having a few CEOs was nothing special. The overall government doesnt really care about how you run your worlds as long as you follow the rules of the Republic pay your taxes and send *someone* to represent you in the Senate at the capital. Why wouldnt they? The Senators may represent interests over geographical regions. So youd have a senator for a planet but you might also have a senator for a region or a senator for a trade federation. There is an argument that it might work better than the American model where the megacorporations lobby the senators into representing their interests over the voters. Because they are the legal government over their systems. True theyre run as a business instead of as a democracy republic monarchy etc but theyre still the governing body. The beginning of the end for the Republic was the addition of galactic megacorporations to the political landscape of the Republic senate. The megacorporations were maneuvered into power by the Sith who were at various times in control of or powerful and influential benefactors to these corporations. With the right bribes and political pressure along with the monopolistic vice grip the Trade Federation and other galactic megacorporations had on all forms of commerce along with having armed fleets and a standing military of droids they muscled their way into the senate. They werent the only megacorporation granted political representation but they were the most powerful. Giving megacorporations the powers protections and representation of ordinary people and every other star system allowed them and their money to gunk up the already slow wheels of Republic bureaucracy and really just ensured that eventually the system would collapse given the interests of corporations and the interests of the people are not often aligned. Because leading up to the separatist uprising they are so powerful they effectively have the same saying power as a government. They employ so many and have so much asset they out match a lot of planets. Theres nothing to be gained from excluding them from the senate. Imagine if theres a fleet on earth with hundreds of warship and nuclear weaponry and control the worlds trade route but they arent technically a nation. Do you think they wouldnt get a seat in the UN Assembly? [Legends sources like the *Darth Plagueis* novel go into detail and since that novel is referenced by the canon *Tarkin* novel it might be considered broad strokes canon as well] Short version in the decades before the invasion of Naboo there was the galactic equivalent of a gold rush leading to expansion and colonization of many worlds farther from the Core mostly the Mid Rim and possible some of the Outer as well. Not all were profitable and those that were wound up heavily exploited by their Core parents to make up for other failed investments. Some worlds went into debt to megacorporations like the Trade Federation while some eventually recovered and sued for independence. The worlds that couldn’t pay back their debts more or less became territories of Corporate Space. Eventually it came to a Senate issue—whether each of these corporate worlds should have representation leading to disproportionate voting power for those corporations in practice or just give a seat directly to the corporations excluding many individual systems as a result. The Senate voted for the latter but either outcome was meant to be a loselose scenario eroding democratic values and sowing discontentment with the Republic that would eventually lead to the Separatist movement. Of course many of these events were manipulated financially by Hego Damask aka Darth Plagueis and politically by Palpatine Darth Sidious. *TLDR It was a compromise resulting from a loselose scenario manipulated into place by the Sith.* The Trade Federation wasnt just a business. It was a multiplanetary government. Lobbying bribery corruption... much like real life. In the real world corporations cant necessarily buy themselves seats in Congress but they can get their own former employees elected to Congress or shower favors on future employees Congress members. Decades before his presidency Joe Biden was mocked as the Senator from MBNA a banking and credit card company for whom Biden was notorious for pushing favorable legislation... there are even more egregious examples both Dem and Republican. *Star Wars* just takes that to the most insane conclusion with the Sith meddling behind the scenes to help make those sorts of things happen. Read up on the history of the Hanseatic League in the Holy Roman Empire. TLDR money buys guns buys power Why is Russia China USA... in UNO? as others have said they basically had the money to buy that degree of power. given the extent of the trade covering hundreds of planets and likely millions of direct employees and billions of indirectly affected ones theirs a case to be made that they have legitimate influence and interests on par or greater than many member worlds in scale and scope and granting them a full senate seat at the galactic level to participate in governance at that level is only fair and just. it IS a sign of the decay and corruption of the final years of the Republic mind but thats the gist of it. The Senate wasnt completely free of corruption at the time. I also think the Nemoidian senators represent their home planet Cato Nemodia not the Trade Federation. Because Windu told them to Take a seat young Trade Federation. Is it ever stated that the senator represents the Trade Federation specifically and not simply the planet theyre headquartered in? They might just hold a lot of sway over the government. Theres reason to believed theyre a chartered company like the East India Company meaning they would in fact answer to a government not just the market. I could ask the same question of our current senate. Because they were also the ones basically funding the entire government If a corporation is the legal government of a planet why would The Republic discriminate against them? Is megacorporation any less deserving of a seat than a hereditary monarchy like Alderaan? They own the star systems. Its like if Amazon took over Oregon like the whole thing. They could then just call the state Amazon and have a senator they pick. Obviously there should be laws against that but there arent. The Republic sucked Post 1 /r/WorldNews Live Thread Russian Invasion of Ukraine Day 1202 Part 1 Thread #1349 Author WorldNewsMods f\*ck Putin f\*ck Trump f\*ck Imperialism ! Слава Україні ! Post 2 Russia Wont End Ukraine War Until NATO Pulls Out of Baltics Moscow Author BreakfastTop6899 Users often report submissions from this site for sensationalized articles. Readers have a responsibility to be skeptical check sources and comment on any flaws. You can help improve this thread by linking to media that verifies or questions this articles claims. Your link could help readers better understand this issue. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Like all gaslighting narcissists... the price to end the insane tyranny keeps changing and growing Hmmmm how about moving *more* NATO soldiers to the baltics? Seems like they have rude alcoholic and overly ambitious neighbors Geeze….wonder where Putin wants to attack next?🤔 Sounds like NATO needs to reenforce the Baltics. Ok folks here it is straight from the Moscow officials mouth. Any peace talks were a smokescreen and there is zero will on Russias side to end the war. Oo looks like someone is gearing up to invade the Baltic bros next I hope our response is to send even more military to the baltics. One Europe. Stronger together So that Ruzzia can line the Baltics up for the next target? Errr that’ll be a no. Let’s be clear Putin will not stop his war until he is stopped so Europe might as well get on with bringing Ruzzia down and stop fucking about with their thumbs up each others asses. Its a defensive alliance that ONLY exists to keep members from being attacked and its voluntary to join The Baltics are members of NATO. Is Russia asking these countries to withdraw their militaries from their own countries? Russia is the only country in the world to ask more and more as the chances of it winning get worse and worse As a Estonian Russia can stick its finger up their bums and do a roly poly down a mountain. His demands are getting more and more out of touch with reality. The baltics joined NATO not the other way around and they did because ruzzia fuckings sucks as neighbor or neighbors neighbors or neighbors neighbors neighbor. They are a 4D Teseract of horrible neighbor. And there is still people out there saying we should stop aiding Ukraine. Fucking disgusting Fuck this guy He doesn’t get it. The baltics chose NATO not the other way around. Hmm last year it was just Ukraine joining NATO. Maybe in a few years the headline will be Russia wont stop EU war until US troops withdraw from Florida. NATO isnt in the Baltics. The Baltics are in NATO. I can understand his confusion since Russias foreign policy is the opposite. Even the Russians who live in the Baltics don’t want to be part of Russia. Thats not for you to decide Vlad. so these are the new demands? Wants permission to annex EU countries? Russia won’t stop their war of conquest until they are defeated. I wont stop my invasion until you allow me to start another one Important to remember that when he attacked Ukraine in 2014 they were not pursuing NATO membership. Ukraine was not in any way aggressive toward Russia militarily. What they had done was oust a president that was moving Ukraine toward Russian control. When they did that Russia took Crimea with the help of Russia friendly leaders within Ukraine. But Russia had agreed to respect Ukraines sovereignty and borders already. Russia started that war unprovoked. There is 0 reason to think he will respect any agreement at any point. Negotiation is not possible with him. NATO isnt occupying the Baltics. The Baltics *joined* NATO. ***BECAUSE OF YOU.*** This guy Putin is a total lunatic. Yeah good luck with that D lol get fucked Putin. Demonstrate the need to be in NATO to call for removing countries from NATO. I’m starting to think Putin isn’t a 4D chess master. man this is the shit that freaks me out most like realistically he wouldnt ever win against nato but if he were to try something here it would still destroy my home and so many peoples lives trump better not fucking let it slide this far Given recent events Russia wont be ending the war at all. Slava Ukraini finish what they started. Putin chooses complete economic collapse it appears. I guess as long as he isnt personally suffering its not biggy to him. We wont stop attacking these guys until you make it safe for us to attack these other guys. Stop protecting them! NATO aggression! Cue the 🍊 telling NATO they should kick out the Baltic states. Oh it’s the Baltics now too? Soon it will be Poland to be removed from the EU. Jebac Putin How about Russia Pulls Out from Planet Earth Well I suppose Ukraine will end it for them then. Well that seems pretty clear. His land grab doesnt stop with Ukraine. He wants all the marbles. The implications here and the possible scenarios that could play out are more than disturbing. NATO nations in Europe have to make hard decisions regarding military spending in the face of a growing threat and that kind of escalation is in itself dangerous. How is it that history continues to repeat itself again and again when one power mad individual rises to power and creates chaos for the entire world? We never seem to learn. Estonia joined the European Union and NATO in 2004. I remember in 2012 I was at a and we had a politics class. I said that for Estonians it was actually more important to become a part of NATO than the EU although both were important ofc. The Danes were surprised. So the goal posts have moved again it seems. Someone tell Russia thats not how shit works.. These threats are not for us. The threats are for the russian soldier to make him believe that the war is going so well that they can make these demands. To boost whatever morale they have left. Keep fighting 🇺🇦🇸🇪 This is like a criminal offering to end a hostage standoff if the cops send the children back into the house. This means he wants to attack the Baltics lol NATO never rolled in to the baltics. They joined and can leave any time they like. NATO is not an occupying force like Russia and their invasion of Ukraine a sovereign country. F\*ck Putin sad nasty old PoS destroying lives due to his vanity. So he is confirming he wants to invade the baltics now….. wtf Endless lies and bullshit. I thought it was the Ukrainian nazis?....or their joining NATO? Or their puppet government? Putin wants Ukraine at any cost. He has lost so much in this war he simply cannot back down now. Trump is doing everything in his power to allow Putin to take the five territories. He hopes this will satisfy the murdering bastard...fat chance. A free democratic Ukraine is anathema to the psychopath. With its rich resources including colossal gas deposits in The Black Sea Ukraine is a prize that he will not give up on. Duh because his next targets are the 3 Baltic states. Lots of people have said that Russia will test armed conflict with nato to support a position that their losses in Ukraine were justified. Fuck this guy. Baltics are under our protection as long as there is Russia existing. And if they test it we fucking rain fire to St Petesburgh reject every Russian ship moving in Baltic sea and cut their land link to Murmansk sooner than they can spell blyat. Love from Finland. If they dont want NATO being so close then whyd they push Sweden and Finland to join? NATO is not in the baltics. The baltics are NATO How about Ukraine will not stop destroying Russian military capabilities until Russia admits defeat and goes home or until Russia has no army left. This is insane the Baltic’s are independent and free to make security choices on their own. They willingly entered into a security and defence treaty for the sole purpose of stopping further Russian aggression. I don’t blame them what they went through after WW2 has moved them to make this decision. Russia can go fly a kite. NATO strong 💪 Its time for NATO to double down. Im fine with this. If Russia agrees to break apart into several smaller nations and disarm. Sound fair? Get fucked Pootie Unrealistic demands they know NATO wont accept. Same exact thing Russia did when they were preparing to invade in the first place. Next up Putin demands Poland Lithuania and Iceland join the CSTO Little man with the world’s largest land mass is threatened. Weak. im not going to stop abusing this person until you and the police move back to the next town over. dont worry i promise ill stop abusing this person kicks person and wont abuse anyone else as long as you and the police stay in that other town... How can NATO pull out of the Baltics anyway? These are NATO members and as far as I know there is no mechanism to remove a NATO member from the treaty anyway. Of course Putin is bullshitting with this demand anyway. Post 3 Six babies with unvaccinated mothers born with measles in Canada Canada Author Shot_Alps_4339 Imagine your baby dies in 2025 because you didn’t get a measles vaccine? This is disgusting. If the babies somehow survive and arent horribly crippled in some way as a result I wish them all kinds of luck. Theyre going to need it after losing the birth lottery so badly. If only there was a way to prevent this Another totally avoidable tragedy rears its ugly head. We had a family friend. The mother had gotten measles when she was pregnant this was before the vaccine. The child from that pregnancy was severely mentally disabled. Maybe like a four or five year old mentally as an adult. It didnt mention in the article but in previous articles regarding other outbreaks they have mentioned that its people refusing to get vaccinated on religious grounds. Isnt it about time we remove religious exemption for vaccines? MMR boosters people. They’re free. Since when did ppl stop wanting to give their kids then best start in life? Religious freedom shouldnt allow you to be a threat to public health. Being unvaccinated should be treated the same as drinking and driving this is starting to get pretty ridiculous...too many stupid people ruining life for the rest of us. parents should be charged with negligence and abuse. Canada don’t be like us. Protect yourself and those you love with proven medical science not magical skydaddy miracles. It’s not mentioned in this article but the outbreak is heavy amongst the Mennonite community in southwestern Ontario. Hence the low vaccination rates. The MMR vaccine and many others are mandatory for kids attending public schools in Ontario. I think that’s why it’s spreading in communities like these ones and not in city centres. My mother stayed home instead of going to movies or restaurants the entire nine months to avoid catching German measles in the 1960s. As a kid in the 1970s I knew of kids born deaf whose moms had not escaped it. And now this in 2025 in USA ... 😫 They brought it upon themselves. Hopefully the infants make it. Antivaxers are proving Darwin’s law of survival of the fittest. First day of life and already having to deal with crappy parents. That sucks. May that be the last branch of the family tree. Moms who really wanted to own the libs.... this must the freedom convoy crowd haha There is a problem in both America and Canada with trusting public health officials regarding the efficacy and safety of vaccines and we need to address that first. Restore trust. Much of that was lost during COVID due to political misinformation campaigns that were exasperated by foreign influence. Well I’ll be damned! It’s almost like these DOCTOR” folks might know what they’re talking about!🤔 We own the lobs by reducing quality of life and life expectancy…. The inter_web told me so eh… derp! Are these predominantly from specific communities? What groups of people are being told to not be vaccinated? Parental neglect. Remove the children from the home. This is heartbreaking. They should be charged. If you can charge a mother for a miscarriage for fucks sake you can charge them for purposely putting their lives in harms way. Said another way it’s the equivalent of not buckling in their car seat because you don’t believe in seat belts. Sometimes I forget that we Americans aren’t the only idiots in this world slow clap Geniuses. Huh... Didnt expect that out of Canada. Tennessee okay sure. But Canada? Since when did vaccines become a religious or political issue?! Back in the day mothers used to line up for blocks to for the opportunity to get their babies a polio vaccine. Anyone who refuses a vaccine for their child is an abuser. I had chicken pox as a kid and was fully under the impression that I was therefore immune to rubella because of it. Well come last August and I find out Im pregnant. I get all the labs done and they say Im no longer immune. I also am not allowed to get the vaccine while pregnant. I was terrified and stayed as far from the public eye as I could. Our education system failed me. And our health system failed me in alerting me sooner in any of the multitude of times Ive had labs done in the last several years and not knowing or thinking I could be tested for the status of it. Thankfully baby is healthy and I avoided getting any bit sick throughout my pregnancy. People that choose not to vaccinate are actively endangering those who cant and hopefully none of these women were in a similar situation and have to deal with the impacts of others ignorance. PLEASE DO NOT START THIS SHIT HERE FOR FUCK SAKES. As a Canadian if you don’t want to vaccinate FINE GTFO and go to Texas and Swim in the fucking swamp with RFK Jr. and the rest of the willful idiots. Is this in the mother or the maternal grandparents? Social media knows no bounds and the influencers are listened by a lot of people. In the US women are apparently declined medical treatment unless they complete a pregnancy test. Regardless if the reason for visit have anything to do with pregnancy or the womans fertility/medical history its still required. Im not saying I agree with this policy but if this is being enforced then why not require vaccinations in order to get treatments too? this is extremely disheartening. Wow its just like todays textbooks with the science stuff in it! They will must likely be blind. Way to care about your child. Have them pay for healthcare bills You can’t get MMR vaccine while pregnant I have had all my vaccinations all my life and multiple Covid shots and flu shots every year I was trained as both a nurse and then a social worker so I am pro vaccine and so when I was expecting my first child I thought I should be covered and even asked for a TDap vaccine to cover me during flu season too but found out that my bloodwork came back saying there was no present MMR antibodies despite my vaccination history showing I got the vaccine but it had been too long between my boosters and now that I was pregnant it was not safe to have Immediately after my baby was born I got an MMR shot before I left the hospital though so that baby would hopefully get some of the antibodies through my breastmilk until her vaccine schedules started Not saying these woman couldn’t get vaccinated for the same reason but just saying they might have thought they were covered like me and then found out after getting pregnant the booster had expired what about those babies rights? I just know those mothers are unemployed. Now theyre going to be milking the system to get every kind of benefit for the kid and for themselves for at least the next 18 years. Why do I have to work to fund this trash? When are they going to release the stupidity vaccine? Oh that’s right…don’t bother. They won’t get it anyway. I like how everyone here assumes it is about unvacinated people who choose to do it rather than unvacinated people who come from all over the world due to mass migration. once a person is pregnant...unvaccinated pregnant people... FFS. [deleted] Post 4 Ukraines F16 Took Down Russian Fighter Jet in Historic First Report Author eaglemaxie Users often report submissions from this site for sensationalized articles. Readers have a responsibility to be skeptical check sources and comment on any flaws. You can help improve this thread by linking to media that verifies or questions this articles claims. Your link could help readers better understand this issue. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* According to the article the F16 took out a Su35. That is great news considering the F16 given to Ukraine are old. And Su35 is supposed to be one of Russia’s newer fighter jets. So F16A still packs a punch with the assistance of Swedish Saab radar plane. Proud to be Swedish today. This is what happens when you supply Ukraine with the stuff they need to win not to just scrape by. Give more to Ukraine. Ukraine recently received a Swedish Saab 340 AEW&ampC airborne early warning and control small plane big radar on top. It can see threats up to 400km out and tell the F16 about them before the Russian Su35 even knows the F16 is there. This is a proper modern air force and this is something Russia isnt prepared for. *cue Highway to the Danger Zone* F22 seething rn and protocols like recently kind of flew under the radar in the media because it’s not a sexy headline like them getting missiles tanks or fighter jets. But networked command and control communications is a massive advancement for their capabilities. They now have the capability to share real time targeting information from both ground and air based systems directly with their front line forces. So now older weapon systems like the F16 can see”well beyond their original limits and are far more effective. If anyone is wondering why the next generation fighters like the F35 are all about stealth at the expense of almost everything else this is why. Missiles are so good that the only defense is not being spotted until its too late. Why does it sound like Ukraine is getting era scores like in Civilization 6... Give Ukraine the BUFFS Well done! Many more to come. Chappy Sinclair clearly runs the flight school in .ua Doing what it was born to do. It’s not the plane. It’s the pilot.” Ah Top Gun Ukraine edition. I know at least one pilot who doesnt need to worry about flying loads of rubber dogshit out of Hong Kong. Must have finally tried going inverted. Hopefully the first of many People were speculating Ukraine used western intelligence. But it appears they found him themselves with donated outdated AWACs Ukraine had deployed a Swedish Saab 340 AEW&ampC Early Warning and Control reconnaissance aircraft which had been discreetly tracking the Russian jet from hundreds of miles away. So the UKR pilots most are coming from Russian based planes. How do they like the Western counterparts? I have read some brief note that they are not too found Western air combat strategy but curious about the planes. always nice to hear good news for Ukraine. Slava Ukraini! Post 5 Norway Outlaws Sex Without Consent as Europe Strengthens Rape Laws Author ForwardAnswer4407 The difference between this headline and what the legal change actaully was is staggering. Up to now prosecutors have had to show that an attacker used violence or threatening behaviour or had sexual intercourse with someone who was unable to resist to secure a conviction for rape. Under the new law passed by parliament anyone who has sex with someone who has not consented to it by word or deed could be convicted of rape even without violence. How these people get paid to make headlines is beyond me. Norway strengthens rape laws alongside Europe would be much more appropriate as the original headline blatantly implies sex without consent was legal prior to this when it wasnt. The worlds fastest wait thats horrible why didnt they alr oh its a bullshit headline that doesnt fit the actual truth got it Ive had in a while Sex without consent is rape. So i expected it to be illegal I cant really think of a situation where having sex with someone who didnt give consent by word or deed isnt rape so I think people upset about this either have bad reading comprehension or are looking to get mad at wömen about smth I mean yeah. Now is that not already rape? I mean that literally what is it currently called in Norway? So do we carry consent forms around with us now? I have a daughter so Im all for this law but their has been the odd time or two that during the heat of the moment Ive not said to a women do you want to do this. Dont get me wrong if a lady has ever said look I dont want to do this Ive stopped respected their decision maybe even said a couple of time are you sure because Im all horney and that but Ive alway respected the womens final decision. What worries me is with this as in the situations Ive been in a situation where weve both be really drunk and we both wake up in the morning I cant remember what has happened and she cant remember what has happened. Im not going to lie their has been the odd time as a guy. Ive woken up been confused and disoriented basically beer fear. But if a woman felt like that and Id be jail even though the night was one big mess. Obviously Im still here never been to jail and thankfully from my knowledge been a good guy and respectful but what scares the fuck out of me is the feeling of a guy having an experience like like Ive stated above where both parties are mashed cant remember but the female side claims rape. One how common is this to help my ignorance and two whats the protocol? Read. The. Article. was it legal before??? Kid named Consent Murdering someone to death will be illegal next [deleted] Isn’t that still considered rape if it’s affected without consent I mean did they have that before that you could rape legally? What the fuck? Meanwhile...we have an American president whos broken this law repeatedly. So many SVU episodes to watch Lowkey thought it just said *Norway outlaws Sex* The article says it was already illegal but now they’re super serious about it and they swear. Double trouble. They mean business this time. Before it was like.. yea it’s bad but… and now it’s like.. not cool bro not cool. In future you need to make contract and write signatures with two witnesses before having sex. Im lucky I dont have to. Post 6 China shuts down AI tools during nationwide college exams Author theverge Chinese AI companies have temporarily paused some of their chatbot features to prevent students from using them to cheat during nationwide college exams Bloomberg reports. Popular AI apps including Alibaba’s Qwen and ByteDance’s Doubao have stopped picture recognition features from responding to questions about test papers while Tencent’s Yuanbao Moonshot’s Kimi have suspended photorecognition services entirely during exam hours. The increasing availability of chatbots has made it easier than ever for students around the world to cheat their way through education. Schools in the US are trying to address the issue by reintroducing paper tests with the Wall Street Journal reporting in May that sales of blue books have boomed in universities across the country over the last two years. Read more People its not just about phones. Remember you can wear digital contact lenses and have morse code transmitted to a vibrating butt plug. Where theres a will theres a way Or make the exam halls a Faraday cage? Quite suspicious if someone were to bring an ethernet cable to the exam hall. You can run an offline AI on a Raspberry Pi these days so shutting off AI at the company will only work for so long. A model trained on a physics entrance exam might be tiny and not need a lot of power. Imagine somebody determined fitting one inside a standard calculator shell that requires a number combo to activate so brief inspections would just show normal calc use. Today’s technology already includes little glasses like fighter jet HUD with datalink. Why not just... you know not allowing them to take their phones out during exams? Wouldn’t they just use a VPN and ChatGPT? If I wanted to cheat. I would find a way. Like if I wanted to find onlyfans models videos and images for free. I would just go to yandex and type in their username. If there’s a will. There’s a way. See this is the type of power that governments in the West should have over the regulation of AI tools whether you agree with what China is regulating is correct or not. While in the West governments lack the teeth willpower or speed to regulate the likes of OpenAI. Cheating is easy in any exam. First step get an outline of what is included in the test. Second acquire a collection of data relevant to what is included. Third write all the answers down or key points to make the answers apparent when the time comes. Now the trick….. hide the answers on yourself where you can access them without the testers knowledge. There are many ways to do this papers smart glasses Morse code based buttplugs…… but there is new tech that in nearly undetectable and even if caught more likely to be ignored. Store the data in your mind. You can actually write the needed information right inside you head. Lmao they will never catch you. Good luck I hope they did that unannounced 5 minutes into the exam. How can people smart enough to go to college not understand that they are paying to learn something. They are only cheating themselves by not honestly doing the work to learn. Everyone else at the university still gets paid but the cheater doesn’t get what he paid for. I hope Millennials are prepared to work until they are 80 because younger generations are going to have advanced degrees and no actual ability to think critically solve problems or create anything. When I was in University years ago before the rise of *AI Chatbots* I sat as the student member on a Academic Dishonesty committee. While the specific matters were confidential what I learned is that some students spend so much time attempting to cheat I really wonder if they actually spent that time *studying* for the test they would actually do quite well. Also most of the students were caught for stupid reasons meaning that the real professionals were not. Honestly I think many academic insitutions may move toward closed book written essay type exams *or* oral exams to gauge whether the student actually learned the material. I dont see AI as the antihesis of learning but the way we examine it will have to change. Looks like the buttplug is going to need a vpn. Good for China but to be fair its not like cheating hasnt always existed no matter the nationality of the student. So what solutions are the rest of the world going to implement? If they were smart they would leave it off. We may not like centralized command infrastructure like China but damn if they dont know how to shut shit down when needed. Now remember kids you can just download and run an LLM offline! 🌈The more you know🌈 Haven’t even done casting yet and it’s almost summer I expect it to be pushed back more For closedbook math and physics tests in the early 2000s I remember feeling like a brilliant hacker uploading formulas and notes onto my TI calculator through the USB port. It’s a whole ‘nother world nowadays with AI tools. Post 7 Western guests including Elon Musk’s father to speak at proPutin oligarch’s Moscow forum Author Dystopics_IT The entire family are just general pos humans this isnt exactly surprising that this incestuous clown would be a guest. This is the freak that fucked his own stepdaughter right? How Woody Allen of him. Okay but are we really surprised by this? Elons dad has always seemed... out there. This just solidifies the idea that some people are willing to cross lines for attention Yeah theres NO possibility that Elon copied a bunch of sensitive US data to use as a bargaining chip with Russia and China /s Does this mean hell pick up Elons Russian passport? Hahaha Do these people have no shame ? Its a rhetorical question Surprise surprise surprise! Is his mother still in China? Anything for money or underage girls. The guy impregnated his stepdaughter and should be in jail. Would be nice if Alex Jones could have a permanent stay in Russia. The apple doesn’t fall far from the tree. Article not mentioning such actor taking part there as Larry Jhonson former CIA” is his employment basically turned by Russian propaganda system into Russian shill recently attacking with corruption blaming Lindsey Graham basically Russian move to tank senate support of a sanctions bill he is pushing against Russia. One of the topics if forum also was How to win souls and minds for Russian sovereignty” 😂 must be a KGB master class for newly turned shills 😂 They’re all feeling emboldened now that Trump is making it the norm This confirms how being an asshole runs in the family. Any sign of Jill Stein? Family of ghouls What he will say is a mystery lol Dad fucked his stepdaughter made two babies. So Elon’s got sisters birthed by his sister. 👌 Americans will shed tears of joy at how they are one step closer to being great again from oppression to anti vax to removing chemtrails Im sure that Russian life or whatever worse is within reach with this move! WTF is with Joe Rogan??!!! Perfect. The two situations are not related. Elon messing with politics and his dad talking with putin lovers. /s Post 8 Mexican Police kill 4 gunmen cross into Guatemala in dramatic border shootout. Author brprer Nice thumbnail Good for the Mexican Police I like how the president is the thumbnail. Imagine every time a cop kills someone in America the thumbnail is trump… Life imitates art from that MWII 2 level. The same government that fumes at the idea of the US carrying out operations against the cartel within Mexicos territory is now engaging in shootouts in other countries borders. So a cartel gang war? Which cartel owns the mexican government again? Will this set precedence that the US can now take our cartels in Mexico? Is this the same cartel that Trump just gave green cards to? Post 9 Israel Has Transferred Patriot Systems to Ukraine Ambassador Confirms Author Vova_Poutine To be expected with the easing of Russian influence in Syria and the defeat of Hezbollah meaning Israel doesnt need to appease them as much. Hoping for increased mutual aid. Systems. Plural. I think this is old news. They were transferred at the beginning of the year? Finally! This is a big move in aligning more firmly with the West against Russia especially given the shared population ties between Israel and Russia. Well done. They need it more than we do. Just a reminder Israel sides with Ukraine while Russia sides with the Palestinians and Hamas. Reddit will find some way to get mad at israel for this Yes! Toda Raba Israel! Well this is some good news today That took about 3 years too long but well take it thanks israel How will the Russian + Israel haters react to this one? Might just make a few heads explode Good that theyre finally seeing the connection between the forces of Russofascism and Islamofascism. Goddess bless them. Good guys helping the good guys ProPalestine supporters around the world will now be removing the Ukrainian flag from their bios. Awesome 👍 Thats great israel would have probably start sending way earlier but due to the situation with russia and syria it was harder to do that The prior story was that these went back to the US and the US sent them to Ukraine. They did not send them to Ukraine directly because of fear of Russia. Israel wasnt even using them they were replaced by homegrown systems which Israel wont send to Ukraine. Glad they’re waking the fuck up. Friendly reminder for the proPally crowd that Ukraine and Israel are fighting the same enemy. Maybe the Israelis will provide the support we arent using the systems we send to them. I respect that. Good on Israel for helping Ukraine in their time of need. Watch lefties brain blow up now After being asked by the Biden administration apparently. Not recently. Edit Changed pressured to asked. Israel did not give us the Patriot/Patriots directly they returned it/them to the US for refurbishment because the Israeli systems are in crappy condition. We are talking about systems that Israel has had since 1991. In the spring of 2024 they were decommissioned due to obsolescence and since then there has been talk that it would be nice for us to get them. In September 2024 one Patriot system appeared in the US aid package for Ukraine as we have already figured out this is an Israeli system which the US were supposed to transfer to us after restoration. Thanks Israel. This doesnt make up for the genocide but it is a positive gesture. Makes sense. Russia is arming Iran I suspect this was part of a backdoor deal since Ukraine had just said there were air defense systems that were supposed to go to them but went diverted to Israel. Still not the good guys. You mean the missiles that were supposed to go to Ukraine in the first place Post 10 A NATO member Uturned on buying Black Hawks suggesting Russias war shows they arent the best weapons to focus on Author thisisinsider A Polish here. No the title is wrong. Poland refused these because it already bought substantial number of these before. Its not because of tech or sth. Previous gov. had a tendency to buy 503t242525352! Tanks etc. without much consideration. Every country needs to focus on drones. Everyone thinks they are going to fight the last war. **TLDR** * **NATO member Poland has put on hold plans to buy 32 Black Hawk helicopters.** * **It suggested that Russias invasion of Ukraine shows theyre not the right weapon to focus on.** * **Its not abandoned helicopters but they have proven vulnerable in Ukraine.** Laymen and I am one too very much a nonner love the Blackhawk and A10 far more than their modern realworld utility would merit. Not sure I entirely agree but that depends on where the rest of the budget is. In a hypothetical war with Russia I do expect there to be a critical need for troop transport particularly special ops &amp light infantry to be able to be deployed behind enemy lines. With that said there is an argument for a lot of things including drone &amp anti drone kit. The Ukrainian army demonstrates on a daily basis the importance of drones in the face of the mass of Russian troops. $610 million per Blackhawk depending on model not to mention the expense of training pilots and maintenance. Its a good piece of equipment but it is also pretty vulnerable. Alternatively you can invest in drones that are cheap and easy to operate and after watching Ukraine for last 3 years I think its clear that the better investment is in drones Obviously countries need to invest in Airwolf instead. I thought Blackhawks are being discontinued and the V280 Valor was replacing them its priorities needed some correction and that it might be necessary to buy other equipment instead of the helicopters such as drones or tanks or some kind of communication. Yep drones. Hundreds of thousands of drones including suicide drones reconnaissance drones bigger missile carrying drones fighter escort wingman drones long range bomb drones machine gun drones trench assault land drones water assault drones lurking torpedo drones anti ship mine drones electronic warfare drones anti air drones anti anti air drones anti drone drones etc. The future battlefield will be saturated with these things. I question this decision basically possible scenario for a NATORussian war save for some absolutely worstcase will have it be a war on a way wider front than that in Ukraine with way less concentrated fronts and forces Surely helicopters would come in handy Poland. Poland Uturned in buying these helicopters. 100% true. Advanced aircraft are just too expensive for the value you get out of them. You still will need these for logistics purposes but planning assaults into the deep behind enemy lines air assault style in a highly jammed and integrated air defense environment PROBABLY isnt the best value in this era. Drones provide significant value with extremely low cost to operate. Cool now say Black Hawks 5 times as fast as possible Modern warfare is changing everyone is now scrambling to adapt. Buying any US weapons are right now high national security threats. EU must avoid possible rely on US and buying US weapons. the **32 Sikorsky S70i Black Hawk helicopters** that Poland planned to buy were **utility helicopters** **not** equipped with builtin cannons or heavy weaponry by default. I think that was the main reason why we cancelled Blackhawks arent weapons at all what is this dumbass title? The Ukraine war has some enlightening lessons for everyone but assuming thats how every war will be fought from now on would be the wrong one The current conflict shows that air dominance isn’t likely in a European theater. Contested airspace is a bad place for helo operations. It makes sense to reconsider priorities based on the current conflict. I don’t think it has much to do with the helos or Sikorsky. Probably doesnt help that the USA has shown itself to be an unstable partner at best or worse a Russian ally. Enjoy the Trump bankruptcy spiral Us defense industry. Poland was planning to purchase 32 Black Hawk helicopters. However Ukraine has proven that combat drones are of much better value and effective in battlefield and not to mention cheap. Drone and drone carriers. The ability to deploy drones deep inside enemy lines to knock out their drone capabilities. That needs to be the focus. They were going to buy 32 of them made in Poland. Drones are cheap but cant move people or supplies. If you have to resupply via trucks the drones can wipe you out quickly. More likely they want to buy from a supplier that isnt the US. There are other helicopters on the market made in europe that provide these same capabilities. Drones and AI will be the future should invest in those. I mean America has not shown itself to be the most reliable of partners of late. We could turn into a racist dictatorship on any 4 year interval. Who would try and buy arms from such instability? Makes more sense to purchase something like a UH1N and then put the savings into other things. That said you’re still going to need helicopters. Those titles becoming annoying. A NATO member A NATO ally. Its not like this country did it because it is in NATO so NATO membership doesnt matter in most cases when it comes to this stupid titles. Drones AI Misinformation. I NEVER knowingly turned on a NATO member who was about to buy Black Hawks. Im flattered though who was it? NATO needs DRONES ... Why you dont learn on war in Ukraine???? If you have drones you can destroy anything from ship to helicopter and you can safe your troops. Slow moving aerial vehicle vs loaf of bread sized drone. Hmm. Edit or just rockets Helicopters only make sense with a nigh unlimited budget which only the USMIC has regular reliable access to. Post 11 Ukraine says Russia launched the biggest overnight drone bombardment of the war Author drjjoyner 479 drones 20 missiles of various types were fired at different parts of Ukraine according to the air force which said the barrage targeted mainly central and western areas of Ukraine. Ukraine’s air force said its air defenses destroyed 277 drones and 19 missiles in midflight on Sunday night claiming that only 10 drones or missiles hit their target. Just imagine what Russia could be building for its own people instead with this same amount of effort and resources..... Amazing how all the top comments are from new users with either extremely high or low karma that are all suggesting Ukraine is losing or to blame. How very odd? 🇷🇺 🐖🐖🐖 A lot of analysts make the assessment that it is a sign of desperation by the Russians. They can not hit military targets so have resorted trying to hit civilians Yet they hit nothing but civilian infrastrukture acheiving zero strategic advantage in the war. Meanwhile Ukraine like giga chads knocked out the russian military aviation without a airforce spending almost no money. Changing the future battlefield forever. Meanwhile Russians only taught themselves how to commit new warcrimes. Remember you can win battles but still lose the war. Note to self read about the war don’t comment. Elon should fund the Ukraine and really piss off the Tangerine Taco Theyre getting very desperate it seems. And these retaliations are not working It’s the drones that will get to you. Blowing up conventional weapons is next to meaningless now. Sounds like russia needs more trains and factories decommissioned I read this exact news everyday Thanks to Trump for diverting the antidrone missiles promised to Ukraine Does anyone here know how much territory Russia gained in the past few days? People say that the situation is getting worse This is announced practically every day Seems like every week now we are hearing about an all war high level of drones. It’s disgusting to read every day that this war still rages on. There must not be much left of Ukraine at this point. Post 12 Russian authorities start issuing fines for photos and videos of Ukrainian drone strikes Author Aggravating_Money992 If we dont see it it never happened! Russia Frank Drebin Move along! Nothing to see here! Always good to hear when the big bad evil guy cant handle a little dirt on its face. It means their ego is frayed and morale is suffering with Russia I guess morale was already tanked tho. You cant handle the truth Ugh its like shutting down reporting on Covid numbers or Climate change data... We are being ruled by fat stupid ostriches... Drone strikes?? I thought all this damage was from drone debris? So they see drone strikes as a significant problem now Yeh i hate Russian military and goverment but this makes sense though. Loose lips sink ships Fines? I am surprised it’s not a one way ticket to the front. Ukraine does the exact same thing its so you dont accidently give away air defense positions. This makes sense. Just as you shouldnt share footage of drones strikes on Ukrainian forces because it gives away the efficacy of the strike as well as Ukrainian positions it only makes sense that Russia similarly doesnt like it when people share footage of drone strikes on Russian forces. Sounds like something Trump would do. Cant possibly let people know whats happening they might get the wrong idea entirely about.... whats happening. For all the keyboard warriors here Its similarly banned in Ukraine as well. Propaganda is an important tool in the war so its likely both parties would try to control it Yo Vladimir. Bill me. doesnt ukraine jail its citizens for this? why so biased? Sounds familiar huh? Why give the Ukraine free battle damage assessment BDA Gotta pay that war budget somehow. What a shame. I always imagine the operators are like Timmy from south park but are named Yebat instead. So interesting to hear many different emotions and accents in that same single word that literally every Russian shouts when they hear an explosins All l can say is PUTIN Go to HELL where YOU belong 😡😡😡😡😡from the British people 🇬🇧 Your Greed is not wanted your like a small child demanding more and more Obviously you didn’t get much as a child and now you think your owed something STOP WITH YOUR TANTRUMS &amp LEAVE Ukraine ALONE 😡😡😡😡😡 Poor sportsmanship🙄 This has been a thing for a while. But its pretty weird because official news outlets do show them. I guess no one has quite figured out how to apply the law yet. 🤷‍♂️ Does anyone remember taking a photo in front of a S300 battery? Freedom of the press.....bye Putin That is one way to help the crumbling Russian economy. With how many drone strikes there are they should be raking in tons of fines in no time at all. Sure sign youre winning when you arrest people for showing your victorious fire department at work Go Ukraine piss in LA a dam slack Governor newsfuck Go Ukraine going to kick ass don’t stop Going to over through that bald headed cunt Love freedom Assos not in my USA let’s fuck them up Sorry to poop on the parade but Im pretty sure this is standard for countries at war and Ukraine is doing the same since you dont want to provide a free battle damage assessment or targeting corrections for the enemy. The only difference is Russia occasionally pretending that theyre not at war. Got to be hurting then That means what ukrainians are doing is working and they need to keep it up no matter what! She was not obeying a lawful order” said the white person. Over and over again throughout history… I dare Putin come here and fine reddit users. That is if this murderous war criminal is brave enough to go out of his lair. Post 13 Ukraines General Staff confirms strike on Russian facility producing special receivers for Shahed drones Author Andrew_Secret How special are we talking about here? Like the only suitable replacements come from Iran now? Remember every strike on Russian assets every Every Russian killed is 100% the fault of Putin and his cronies Boom boom sucker Well the receivers definitely received something… just not what they were expecting. Not a hospital or playground or school or apartment block? I thought Ukraine was a terrorist Nazi State.... Whos in charge of Ukraines secret service? They need a pay rise. Dont worry Russia it wasnt an attack it was just a special receiver operation. Russia is getting absolutely fucked today 2 war planes destroyed and multiple factories/refineries hit by massive drones. Good times fuck putler NATO is 100% involved now IMO Ukraine is actually fighting a war. Russia is committing terrorist and desperate actions. Meanwhile Putin is scouring Ukraine to find Orphanages Schools Nursing Homes or Hospitals to reply. Another surgical strike by Ukraine effectively knocking out part to control Shahed drones. Targeting drone tech facilities signals how critical Shahed drones have become in this war. This isn’t just about supply chains—its about electronic warfare dominance. Wonder how this will escalate the drone arms race further. Feels like dominies are fucking falling daily now. They are being incisive in their operations. Seems like a valid target of military value as opposed to say a random apartment block in Kyiv. Cool there will always be a Russian who will have a money problem who cant get enough of Putin in power and who will give information for free Roll on Ukraine They need to identify every military industry facility and base no matter how far on the duck in russia ir is and send some serious drone swarms all over the place! Basically an ideal situation. Ukraine doing war in a civil manner. Puny doing what he does best. Lie cheat and play unfairly in the world arena. Hes such a punk! 🇺🇦🔥 I guess Mr Zelenski still has a few cards up his sleave Does Russia have any air defenses? I thought their Cold War tactics were ground forces and anti air make the allies suffer in the air and then get crushed by waves of tanks. So their eastern flank should be littered with anti air weapons. Why are slow drone still getting through? Special strike on the special recievers factory. Its almost poetry. Usually wars of attrition against a guerrilla style combatant end with then aggressive and wealthier nation retreating at some point even Russia did this with Afghanistan. But as seen with Chechnya Putin Russia and historical precedent of leaning on the peasant class to fight til the very last man napoleons retreat Stalingrad ww2 with sticks and rocks if so be it are all a powerful combination that could be as unyielding Japan in ww2. And if Japan had nukes in ww2 and america didn’t we would all be wearing kimonos. I don’t see Stalin exiting this world with anything but a bullet to the head or cyanide capsule self inflicted or not and somethjng as admirable as the strength and resilience of the Russian people is being used now in a disgusting way. Russian propaganda is just too powerful and Putin may be the most dangerous man with the most power in history. We’re all in for a long ride and this will envelope and involve other nations but the end of it so strap in guys cuz history and luck have provided a cocktail that is going hurt as much coming out as it did going down will it end before 2030? Breaking news. Southern states sign bill to ban unforgivable curses President Trump please stop this war! Poor Russian workers came under attack from an unprovoke aggression!! US need to do something now!!! [removed] Post 14 Leftist activists in Portugal plot poison attack on Israelis at festival The Jerusalem Post Author Cohen_Commentary The original title was Leftist activists in Portugal plot poison attack on Israelis at festival The current title is Jewish woman reveals plot to poison Israelis at Boom Festival in Portugal KAN The title on the site is subject to change as new information develops. *Last updated 2234 UTC* This is some crazy shit. WTF is wrong with them? But its a crazy world now. Having been to boom a lot of times this is fucking horrible and not what the festival is about. Given the fact all those killed at the Nova festival on October 7th were part of this very small community makes me sick to the stomach. People were literally murdered on a dancefloor ffs. Their idea was to infiltrate the Boom Festival set to take place in July because a lot of Israelis go there after doing their service at the IDF. And they felt that it was unfair that \[Israelis\] should be allowed to be included. Wake them up and let them know that they are getting a humanitarian warning to leave their tents make sure they are at a safeish distance away and then torch their tent. Id let them know that I am the most moral arsonist in the world and then give them the strychnine drop to cheer them up What the fuck? This is is some psychopathic level of comments and threats here. As much as people are going to deny it and write pages of excuses on how its actually some targeted protest that actually is totally political when do we admit that for some in this movement its an excuse to conduct revenge attacks on the wrong Jews. I mention Jews rather than Israel because for these people Jews have to prove their worth to them to not to be targeted. A WhatsApp group for leftwing activists in Portugal plotted to poison Israelis at the upcoming Boom Festival Sarah not her real name told KAN News on Monday. The members also intended to defecate on the Israelis tents and urinate in their food. Sarah who is Jewish said she entered the group chat through her work as an artist though she imagined they didnt know she was Jewish. Sarah shared with the Israeli public broadcaster three screenshots from said WhatsApp group One of the texts read they are all pretty much IOF veterans boys and girls. I was thinking of giving them a taste of their own medicine. Wake them up and let them know that they are getting a humanitarian warning to leave their tents make sure they are at a safeish distance away and then torch their tent. Id let them know that I am the most moral arsonist in the world and then give them the strychnine drop to cheer them up. Another says Oh cmon strychnine in their acid is not dismemberment of babies... they are all former or current IOF after all... whats a little strychnine to people who have torn babies to shreds while wearing their mothers stolen underwear. From the website of the American government Centers for Disease Control and Prevention about the Strychnine is rapidly absorbed after ingestion inhalation or intravenous IV administration. It causes generalized muscle spasms muscle cramps stiffness and tightness agitation heightened awareness and responsiveness respiratory failure stimulation sensitive seizures and possibly death Sarah says she also participated in a group phone call where plans to hurt Israeli festival goers were discussed Plans to defecate on Israelis tents plans to urinate in their food plans to set their tents on fire plans to put bad substances inside other substances they may take. Plans to make them feel uncomfortable plans to attack. Its so ironic that leftists are supporting a radical pro Muslim terrorist group that wants Israel completely off the map hates the West and has done nothing to help the Palestinian people including hoarding aid for themselves. Do these people not understand that behavior like this does NOT help the Palestinians? Really a deeply evil plot and so thankful it was exposed. All these talks of PLUR and rave fam have been sounding so hollow since Oct 7 sad that this is continuing Thanks for reminding the world how much israel needs to exist. I reckon that wasnt what they were going for though sadly this is what *globalize the intifada* means Continued violence against Israelis and Jews will not solve anything. The entire ProPalestine movement has just influenced hatred towards all groups involved. And this is exactly why Israel exists and needs to exist. Weird use of Activists” For some reason this morning I was mentioning to my Sephardic friend how Portugal has been trying to incentivize Sephardic Jews into moving there then we both saw this article and boy did I ever stand so corrected I know a few people who until today never considered going to a music festival who would absolutely love the opportunity now. I say let them try. Wow pro terrorist Russian and Iranian propaganda works What the fk to protest against someone doing inhuman things Lets do inhuman things. That’ll definitely help Palestinians It’s all about HuMaN riGhTs right? There’s literally a tiny plaque in Lisbon honoring the dead from the inquisition. Have the Portuguese learned nothing? How does this save Palestinian lives? Leftist activists .... what activists? Call them what they are ... terrorist wannabes. Ah leftists acting like their favorite islamist terrorist group. Who would have thought. Leftists showing themselves to be hateful violent and intolerant of anyone that disagrees with their worldview… The Israelis at boom were a huge pain last time I went... Psy has become really mainstream in Israel and so the odds of finding massive cunts from there was pretty high. I personally got to enjoy a group of about 8 of the aholes who rented a mega camper van and the fuckers kept the camper on all day and night to keep it cool... I lived in a lil t4 like hippy van at that time and was camping next to them for the festival. when knocked and told them their exhaust was pumping into my van they said too bad we need Aircon cause we took drugs wtf?!? and simply spent the rest of the festival like that. Treated me like human garbage laughing and my lil van economic situation etc. It was really strange experience boom was a selection of the finest nicest coolest peeps from all over the world partying with a bunch of Israeli douchebag cunts. Portugal? ok but if this was truly real why did the police not take her seriously? that’s actionable right there. Seems to be there’s something missing. She also spoke to police who she said did not take her seriously.” Is there a corresponding source that isnt jpost? Why did the police do nothing? Maybe this is just no sense. Why there are no proofs of this anywhere in the article a screenshot at least? Why they say it they are leftists? The tolerate left at it again At the time all we know is one guy in some WhatsApp group described his wish to carry violent actions against Israelis and had to defend them against obvious protests from other members. We dont know who this guy is but it seems an isolated and provocative stance. In any case I hope this lady reached out to the Portuguese police so they can investigate this guy. In the mean time please given what we know we all need to keep our cool. There are enough tensions already. [removed] Post 15 SpaceX rocket debris litters Mexico beach threatens environment Author Body_Languagee How convenient Musk had DOGE cut the EPA down to a skeleton crew. Yet another externalized cost society must bear while corporations profit. They should clean up after their shit instead of polluting other countries with their trash. The Saturn V never blew up. So clean it up? It is natural that space research sometimes result in rocket debris on someones beach. Not really an issue unless SpaceX decides not to compensate or clean it. Maybe Musk should take some time away from his busy political schedule and man up on the disaster he created here. Is this the Mars in six months guy? In all fairness if you’ve been to Mexico there are thousands of miles of trash along roadways mangrove forests etc. Space X shouldn’t get a pass but Mexico is shameful in itself. None of the materials of starship threaten the environment. Unless they were using some weird rocket chemicals like perchlorate then there is no real ecological threat. Starship is a Methalox based rocket which is mid as far as environment goes. And also pretty neutral given how they make the methane. Starship is made out of steel which is a departure from previous rocketship paradigm which were made out of carbon fiber which is less environmentally friendly. The worst thing for the environment is probably the heat tiles but even then theyre not much different than beach sand. Those containers on the left definitely do not look like they came from a rocket. They look like small paintball like CO2 canisters which I would never expect to see in a starship. That said SpaceX will pay for this and it’s likely all covered in their permit for the launch via the FAA. you mean american gulf beach?! s At this point Id almost be willing to settle for Trump not invading Mexico to chase the drug cartels. Doesn’t matter. We’ve got Mars to move to if things get too bad If they give us back all the rocket parts we will give them back all their fentanyl. They can even have the cartel members running the massively polluting marijuana grows on state and federal lands. Why they do not have Tesla pay for the cleanup? Similar to how BP was forced to pay for its cleanup? The national guard was immediately deployed because the invaders taunted with American flags. Jk what actually happened was that the president of Univision was trying to get ahold of Stephen Miller to pick his brain on the yarn hes spinning about the la protests that rivals Telenovelas in terms of authenticity. Sigh. Thank $DEITY that isnt being bombed by Nazis again. Post 16 Canada pledges to meet Natos 2% defence spending target sooner Author Gyro_Armadillo This would require an additional 24 billion in this year. Canada should commit to being a world leader in military drone manufacturing. Just think how it could change patrolling the north. They are going to bring the Coast Guard under defence it is currently civilian. It is my understanding most NATO partners with coastlines do the same. That adds about 3 billion annually which means Canada would need another 6 billion in spending to meet the 2%. Genuinely don’t understand how we’re going to pay for such a rapid turnaround in light of Carney’s other plans. But I have to hand it to him he seems dead set on living up to his mandate of the biggest transformation of Canada since the Second World War. I’m fine to let him cook even if I don’t fully understand what he’s cooking regarding this particular commitment since a drop from 5 years to 1 year is definitely….ambitious They should have been doing so for decades. Incoming little pp tax and spend” Moving this up 5 years is impressive. Curious to see how the actual budget breaks down. Yeah because our long time ally has just stabbed us in the back If only the leader of the US was a well....... leader🤮 Post 17 Chinese carrier group entered Japanese waters Author nohup_me From the article A Chinese aircraft carrier group entered Japan’s **economic waters** over the weekend So they didnt enter Japanese territorial waters but Japans Exclusive Economic Zone water something theyre perfectly allowed to do under international maritime law as long as they werent fishing or drilling for oil. The title is 100% clickbait. A Chinese aircraft carrier group entered Japan’s economic waters over the weekend The media really stop acting like entering an Exclusive Economic Zone or an air defense Identification Zone is a big deal. They are just testing the waters. No thanks. China never forgot Nanjing Look for more of this as America continues crumbling into the dust of history. China attempting to draw some global attention away from Ukraine to benefit Russia. Too bad Xi. We know what you’re doing. Oops sorry you ran into our submersible mine drone during your violation of international treaties... Oh I know that. They did that in a movie I think it was James Bond and the Vilain was Carver a media vilain ! &ltGodzilla theme starts playing Yeah a great ally China would be to Japan lol China will grow larger. Im pretty sure Japans Navy can handle them if need be. Time to point Godzilla out to sea and let him do his thing Remember what Turkey did when Russian fighters kept crossing their airspace in Syria? Did Russia do that again once Turkey responded? Time to deploy Kubo Ibuki. Ukraine has demonstrated that inexpensive small drones are pretty good at taking out large expensive ships. Im surprised it can get that far without breaking down. Good news! Both Xi and Trump are all talk and no real action. I always imagine in the next ten years or so the Chinese will have more sea power but it will be the antithesis of American power. Really fast and mobile carrier” packed to the gills with drones capable of coordination like those videos that get posted or the light shows”. It doesn’t even make sense to try and match a rival who had decades to build up naval power. Technology is a great equalizer and could we stop a 510K drone swarm going after a carrier? I see what little junk drones do to armored vehicles. Idk I just have a strong sense the west is all the way asleep at the wheel top to bottom and also full of hubris enough so to pick fights they shouldn’t. Post 18 Trump Calls Iran ‘Tough too tough’ Negotiators Author Wowthefrea If this guy is so good at negotiating why does he keep complaining that everybody is too tough to negotiate with? Apparently judging by the zero deals thus far every country on earth is a tougher negotiator than Trump Everything he was going to fix on the first day turns out to be ‘too hard too tough’ for the geriatric toddlerinchief. Imagine if somebody claimed to be the greatest football player in the world and then all they did was complain about how hard it is to play against the other professionals 😂 It annoys me how whenever a deal fails it’s that they were tough negotiators or that they aren’t reasonable or they don’t have the cards and don’t realize it. Sometimes you just need to accept two sides are too far apart in expectations to meet halfway. You can’t negotiate your way out of someone who wants to kill another person. You can’t only half kill them. That’s a concept children get TACO speaks as TACO does. That just makes him look weak. Thought he was the masturbator sorry master negotiator? It took a lot to get the first deal. Convincing them to give up even more this time with them knowing that a single change to the Presidents office can undo the deal again... I mean you can hate on Iran and say they absolutely should not have a nuke but things like this should always be seen from others perspective. How are they supposed to trust that after giving up a lot in this new deal that they wont have the rug pulled out from under them again? Trump is a weak man’s idea of a strong man. Some will fall for it but the vast majority don’t. Gonna chicken out on Iran too huh Didnt he say just a week ago they better come to the table or get blown up? Well then Hair Furor why didnt you stick to the plan *already* negotiated? If you hadnt ripped it up wed be that much further ahead by now!!! The safety of the entire world relies on a con man. It’s funny because the deal he was looking at making was basically the same deal Obama made which is the same deal he called the worst deal in history. Now he won’t even get that anymore. I have the feeling that by now every single world leader knows how dumb and easy to play Donald Trump is… Too tough? WTF DUDE! You bragged for years and years and YEARS about your godlike negotiating skills. TF happened mr orange turd? Hmmm Obama got a pretty good deal with them. Shame Trump arrogantly tore it up. Maybe Trump just needs to get some grown ups from the Obama administration to help fix his fuck up. Fat donnie going full TACO in 3...2...1... If it wasnt so sad I would be laughing the whole time bc of this american shitshow. Please let it end after season 2 once and for all. Lost to Ukraine lost to China now losing to Iran. Make America Graceless Again Trump is sniffing around everyone for bribes. He has already received $3 billion dollars in bribery and extortion money and counting. Trump is using his crypto meme coin as a Trump access pass. To answer the call of that should be illegal…” It already is illegal but who’s left to enforce it. The Republicans in Congress could do something but Trump is the despot of their dreams. everyone is tough to negotiate with when you always chicken out. Art of the deal my ass. Art of the sucking at negotiating more like it Its you whos bad really bad. Everyone is a tough negotiator when you are a dumbass. If Trump was never good at negotiating. If he was the. Why all the bankruptcies? I mean.... He tanked a casino.... A CASINO! Everything with this guy is image with no substance. The Art of the deal is really just a TACO. Art of the Deal” lol TACO !!!! Looks like it’s time for another TACO I think my adversary should just give up and let me win The Art of the Deal The \[f\]Art of the Deal. Iran is too tough but protestors get the national guard and marines sicced on them? Yeah but are they Nasty as a Canadians? Taco negotiator in charge Trump helped iran get their nuclear armed missiles when he made friends with putin and withdrew the US miltary from northern syria. At some point someone will notice the trend in his actual deal making ability”. Not today but someday. Iran has figured out the secret...it involves TACOs. A rational explanation to trump fans why he sucks so hard Everything...EVERY.THING he does is to benefit himself over anything else. Could the United States benefit in the process? Sure if the interests happen to align. But everything is to benefit himself. Will he get a trade deal with China? 1000% guaranteed. And it will be just enough to get a momentary boost to the United States while giving China the upper hand long term. Doesnt matter. trump win. Will his debt bomb bill pass? Most likely. And it will put the United States economy on a sugar high for the next 810 quarters at the longterm expense of the economy and ability to pay our bills. Doesnt matter. trump win. And that brings us to Iran. And remember this one is special because the Obama administration hammered out a deal that stopped Irans nuclear ambitions. trump tore it up because Obama... trump will very likely agree to a deal with Iran that is worse than what the Obama administration had in place. It will increase the longterm risks to the region and the world but... Doesnt matter. trump win. Anyonewho points out the flaws in the deal will be drowned by a chorus of trump is a peacemaker or whatever the official talking points are. But in every instance the US loses....and loses... and loses. Yoy have to stop praising and creaming over every move he makes. Hes far from infallible. But if he knows he has your support no matter what he doesnt there is no chance for improvement. What? The world’s most powerful man? The Master of the deal? Weak little Iran is too tough”? I’ll translate they keep saying ‘no’ and they’re men”. If they were women he’d call them nasty negotiators” not tough”. In other words they wont give him a plane and let him build a golf resort I like presidents who dont find negotiating with small middle east countries tough No shit. When he tore up the last deal he made the Iranian moderates look foolish and strengthened the hardliners. Iran knows Trump is weak. Russia knows Trump is weak. North Korea knows Trump is weak. China knows Trump is weak. The Taliban are thriving because they realised Trump is weak. Even Hamas has been afraid because they realised Trump is weak. TACO King crumbles before his peers ever do. His prize deal with the UK entirely favoured Britain. The only people Trump is tough on are the American citizens who he will try to maim through economic struggle and Authoritarian violence. TACO looses again. Hes finding out the hard way that nobody wants to parlay with a moron from Queens. But but King Donnie is the artist of the deal... Maybe Donnie just not as bright as he was. Iran didnt offer him a personal plane. T.A.C.O. TACO DON You cant even handle a tiny protest in one of your cities much less worry about things across the ocean. 100 percent the most incompetent deceitful and just downright DUMB administration that has ever been in charge of our country. Harris Walz and Biden told us that Trump would do just this with our military and here we are. If our country were 2 be invaded our president would pay his way out of it and let all of us burn. He doesnt care about you me or ANYONE except his wallet. Everything Harris Biden Cheyney and Walz told us have ALL come true. I wonder what it would feel like being in an ICE detention cell after YOU VOTED FOR TRUMP. They must have read his book Trumps negotiating tactics 1 Ask for a bribe 2 Threaten to blow them up 3 How are those brides looking? 4 Mean posts on TS 5 I think bribes are the way to go 6 Would you like an allexpenses paid trip to Miami? 7 Let me know about those bribes. 8 Chicken out Gee maybe he is just a pussy. Or he’s setting it up to give our country away. Maybe he should have left the treaty in place back in his first term. Iran too tough me too weak” You fucking puke Don the Con most corrupt President in American history 🤢disgusting human being! Arent they basically trying to recreate the deal that was in place that he pulled out of? Trump hey can we have the nuclear deal I cancelled a few years back ? Iran how bout you go F#%k yourself ? Trump Iran are tough negotiators Why is he constantly negotiating all the time. Is this what wiggling his mouse looks like just staying busy” so his status doesn’t go to away?” Tough like the president of China. They are all tough because they cant trust him. Whats the point of making any agreement with Trump? Art of the Deal The fart of the steal Hes gonna capitulate to a third rate failed theocracy. What a shiftless coward. Im expected to do actual work? Why dont people just give me what I want? Obama brought Iran to the table but you ripped that shit up didnt you Taco? Putin will not let him squeeze Iran because they will stop sending him drones. I think this is why Trump is less involved with Israel because they are pissed he’s not doing more. That’s why I think Israel sent the Patriot defenses to Ukraine as an FU to Putin and Trump. I could be wrong though. I have faith in Trump. Eventually he will get a deal that is only slightly worse than the Obama deal he ripped up in his first term. literally had a deal in place and who knows how much more they coulda got out of Iran before Trump tore it up to start all over and loose 5 years Sounds like Trump is just weak too weak Interesting thing to say publicly oh wait never mind my bad. He’s clearly done his homework. TACO time? Is there a Farsi word for taco? So just this week he has complained that China and Iran are too tough for Mr Art of the Deal. Weird. Orange face you are suck at negotiation!!!! Thats why. Dont blame others. Why would anyone expect him to negotiate in good faith? Shart of the deal I thought he was going ti settle this on day one? Well they work for his boss too so they probably have leverage. not too tough for John Kerry. you fucking muppet. Art of the Deal. Better be careful Iran or the Trumpster will send in the Iranian National Guard. Iran gave Trump the middle finger. Another Trump fail. Seems that anyone that doesn’t immediately capitulate is tough” Is this like who knew health care was so hard TACO Don says Iran. Away. Translation They said no.” And walked out. A failed reality show star. Iran will make him give them free nukes. That’s the art of the deal. TACO will claim that was the deal of the century and nobody except he could have done that. Not beating those TACO allegations Too tough for him. This shit isnt funny anymore. Nothing says Im the best negotiator like I never get what I want in negotiations and everyone is too tough. I will never understand why the hell this moron thinks that being a perpetual victim makes him appear strong... Hows that 90dealsin90days going? So far we have... 1? And that was to their advantage? Got it. Did we even say thank you? Maybe just maybe Trump should have stuck with the deal the Obama admin already had in place. TACO man is about to chicken out again Is he just to dumb to not know the word stubborn? I’m starting to think this Trump guy may not be such a good negotiator after all. Trump thinks to negotiate” is to demand that the other side agree to all your terms or you’ll walk away. It might work the first time but once everyone figures out you’re bluffing you become an ineffective laughingstock. You know like Trump. Because they know hes behind the barrel. Id put the screws to him too. Hes pissed off most of the civilized world and stretched his resources too thin. He doesnt stick to his agreements either so why rush? He has zero advantages anywhere. No Loser Donny youre just that bad a negotiating and always has been. This is why we call you TACO boy now. As in barely adequate for a competent negotiator. May be buy them a TACO? What a failure. Fail up. Fail down. Fail side to side. Thats our president. They are all laughing at this pathetic man. I thought he was the greatest negotiator? WTF. Well there you have it Trump openly admitting that Obama is better than him. Obama had no problem securing a deal with Iran. A deal that was working great until Trump cancelled it. They must have read his book Iran wants the same deal they had with Obama. Tough negotiator. Well let’s see we over through a democracy they had in the early 50s so we can control the oil. Then when Sodom Hussein invaded them for no reason at all Donald Rumsfeld supplied weapons to Saddam Hussein. Over 1 million Iranians killed in a useless war with Sodom Hussein using American weapons Then they negotiate a deal with Obama that Trump rips up and makes false accusations regarding the Iranians. Tough negotiations. Who in the hell in Iran would trust a single word said by the orange salamander. Looks like no one wants to make a deal with Trump allies or enemies! Sounds like an excuse to me. Show me the art of deal where’s that at? I thought it works all the time TACO again? You can’t negotiate with terrorists which is what the IRGC are. There is no deal he can make with them because their whole raison d’etre is controlling their ppl’s lives especially women’s and destroying America and Israel in particular. You can’t talk ppl out of that because they’re moved by religious ideology. Trump should know this. I believe what he really means is that Iran is difficult to read because they are incredibly savvy with bullies due to decades of harassment... not tough. Im sure he threatened them with a ridiculous threat Iran didnt flinch and just smiled and offered complicated measured counteroffers which made Trump extremely tired and bored flustered and then probably had to prepare for a round of golf. Tough too tough for the Don. **The final agreement the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action was adopted on 18 October 2015. As a result UN sanctions were lifted on 16 January 2016. On 8 May 2018 U.S. President Donald Trump announced that the United States would withdraw from the Iran nuclear deal.** Imagine that Post 19 NATOs Rutte calls for 400% increase in air defenses to counter Russia Bloomberg reports Author AdSpecialist6598 Its a valid observation. Besides increasing defense budgets in general we need attention for increasing the share of specific air defense capabilities. NATO assumes it will have air superiority and as a logical consequence doesnt have much attention for the lower end of air defense. But Ukraine demonstrates two things \ You neither use an expensive missile from a Patriot or SAMPT battery nor an expensive AA missile from a jet fighter to shoot down cheap drones or cruise missiles. The value exchange is terrible. \ Since drones can be launched from unexpected places near the valuable target your air defense will have to be spread out to defend everything constantly everywhere. So we need lots of shorter range basic AA cannons with air burst ammunition like the Skyranger or the old Gepard. We have a collective gap there. Suggestion based on WWII we might permit critical infrastructure companies energy cloud defense etc to purchase their own air defense cannons for key targets. They might move faster than governments. Heres a thought.. Why not give Ukraine military aid so they can fight against/fend off Russia Sure ramping up air defence is a good thing but thered be alot less to defend against if Russia were to be defeated or collapsed Ukrainians took out a significant portion of the Russian Air Force in one day. It couldn’t have cost them more than five million dollars. Maybe we should follow their lead. European NATO members are already in process of acquiring more air defenses. Germany is pumping out IRIST as fast as it can but observers are suggesting yet more money has to be put towards Diehl for further capacity improvements which they have already doubled and doubled again. My gut check is Canada will also purchase IRIST as well since they have explicitly stated they are going to purchase macro air defense systems as part of their military budget expansion and perhaps it should be a second manufacturing base for IRIST so that overall IRIST output can increase. SAMP/T needs a major kick in the ass. Its manufacturer and sponsor countries France &amp Italy have been absolute laggards in production. All talk and little action. The UK and Sweden have both been outputting shorter range SAM systems which are effective but not theater level systems to my best knowledge. Can NASAMS be produced solely via Norway and without American participation? I do not know. South Korea has its own SAM systems as does Taiwan. I dont know as much about them but perhaps there are options in their systems that are effective and can scale in production? They should fund Ukraine and have them take care of Russias remaining air force. Serious question how is this even remotely possible to afford in countries that are not totalitarian run ? Like is this posturing or is he being serious with the information but it wont happen any time soon ? All of the EU arm things Ive seen are going to acted on after 5/10 years etc. Is the answer to remove the societal crutches ? Like healthcare etc. It is sad to see NATO actively preparing for war with Russia preparing to repel massive missile attacks and so on instead of supplying Ukraine with longrange missiles to disrupt Russian weapons production right now and avoid war. What is the logic? Since it turns out western skies are mostly defenseless with only enough ammo for a couple of weeks quadrupling the budget doesn’t seem like a bad idea. But something tells me it needs to go even higher if we want to discourage pootin. Please so what Americans wish our corrupt leadership would do!!!! Just give Ukraine a little more time and Europe wont need air defense. The Russian airforce will be reduced to fpv drones. 400% seems a bit much looking at Russian capability. Howeever whatever it takes take my money! Are there relatively cheap option for air defense against drones? Your arming up for the last war not the next war. We don’t need air defenses as much as we need very specific types of air defense ie missile and drone interception systems. And that’s a world of difference Post 20 Deep seas Greenland Antarctica ‘not for sale’ Frances Macron tells UN oceans summit Author Extra_Place_1955 TIL Macrons first name is Frances. We live in a world where this has to be explicitly said... He also told Putin he couldnt invade Ukraine. Macron has a huge mouth but no teeth. Now we are seeing hanging over the ocean the threat of unilateralism. We cannot allow what happened to international trade to happen to the sea Lula said at the UN summit. Like how? cannot allow is just pointless hot air without enforcement power. Unilateralism is not a threat. It is already here happening in front of our eyes. And by definition it does not need anyones approval. Why do you think this is any different from what is happening to international trade? Macron loves lecturing the world on what’s not for sale” while France a middle power with delusions of grandeur can barely defend its own coastline without NATO. This is the same country that tried to sell outdated submarines to Australia cozies up to China when it suits them and still dreams of colonial relevance. Spare us the moral grandstanding. Macron should focus on holding onto France’s colonial territories in Africa. Bruh dont give him ideas about Antarctica now 🤦 Hes really speaking to one specific person not the entire UN. Post 21 Russia recruits Cubans for the front lines in Ukraine Author Logibenq appeared in a video pleading for help after being hired from Cuba to supposedly carry out construction work. They said they were promised a monthly salary of over $2000 and that they would be . Without understanding how they ended up in the combat zone. It’s all been a scam” they stated at the time. This is insane. And i have few doubts that this actually can be true O Looking desperate. Russians too scared to fight their own war” *fixed ...they would be guaranteed a Russian passport. Why in the world would that be a benefit worth fighting for? Russian recruit is oneway ticket to Ukrainian front. Man some of the people on here are so laughably out of touch. I spent two months in some of the poorest Cuban tows and cities I can absolutely understand why some people living in those places would take up this offer..... I really.hope.cuba doesnt join. They dont need that shit. They already have enough of their own problems and lets be honest they would be wiped out completely. Russia is definitely feeling the pain from foreign fighters fighting for Ukraine and this must be their response. DPRK and mercenaries from Africa pale in comparison to the types Ukraine has. There are a surprising amount of Colombians that have volunteered to fight for Ukraine and they’re mostly veterans from fighting the cartels. It’s been really interesting seeing how effective they have been for the AFU. Cuban military and solders are great at controlling and killing unarmed civilians. When faced with determined and trained soldiers like the UKR soldiers they will most likely be wiped out by the Chechen rearguard as they run away. Or maybe this is the Cubans idea of getting UKR residency by giving themselves up as soon as they meet UKR troops. Dont they know whats in store for them? They dont have Reddit in Cuba? I saw a few men from India and China being interviewed and the soldiers said we were recruited to provide security behind the lines in order to free up Russians for the battlefield but they sent us directly to the front! I do feel pity for those whove been fooled but most of all the poor North Koreans who were thrust into 21st century warfare with 60 year old equipment. I have zero sympathy for ANYONE who signs up for this. You chose to sign up for a country which INVADED another country and expected them to keep their word? You wanted money and got conned. This should be filed under Leopards Ate My Face”… Bruh?! I know a Cuban who was in the military there. I really hope he didnt join this bullshit. Thinning more than their own herd I see. The cuban people are lovely and dont deserve this for sure People evil enough to fight for Russia or help them in any way deserve to face the consequences of their actions. This is not the 1960s anymore yo! Christ imagine gutting not one but two countries of sufficient soldiers Wolveriiiines! I don’t like this really depressing remake of Red Dawn. No offence to anyone but I immediately saw Pitbull making a song about how his fellow Cubans are getting coerced. 🎶Mr. Worldwide yeah From Havana to Moscow — dale! Came from the island corazón de fuego Now we out here dealin’ with a Russian juego. Cigars in the air cold vodka on ice From the Tropic sun to them winter nights. They flew me out for the rubles Said Easy job” now I’m seein’ doubles Smoke in the air not Havana cigars Just drones and shells and burntout cars Cuban heat but we freezin’ out here Wrong war wrong place now it’s clear.🎶 🫳🎤 Post 22 Nvidia CEO says the UK is in a Goldilocks moment Im going to invest here Author snozburger TLDR the guy who owns the company behind the AI GPU industry is very much in favour of the govs stance on making it cheaper and easier to build data centres that would use those products. Feels like a smart move. Nvidia sees the UK as the perfect combo of talent and investment but they need more infrastructure. If Starmer’s £1 bn compute pledge kicks in this could genuinely reboot Britain as a global AI player. Still energy costs and scaling will be key to watch. The UK could be genuinely great and see huge economic growth but there are issues electricity costs are 400% than US making data centres and AI very expensive. Planning and infrastructure are an absolute minefield and take at times decades to see through the government is looking at fixing these issues and if it can the UK could seriously boom. Waiting for Trump to start slamming Nvidia CEO… That is panic run from US every major Corp is trying to escape. Nvidia CEO is doing a world tour and is praising every country he visits icl we need this here in the UK we have such a massive issue with braindrain hopefully having nvidia preferably up north like york or durham would be big! we already have arm but unfortunately arm is not on the LondonSE instead on some US SE UK regulators hold control over the purchase of Arm which Nvidia heavily rely on and pay massive licence fees for… maybe he’s buttering up the government and will try to buy it again. Third Industrial Revolution here we come. UK wages are so low compared to the US I’m surprised more businesses haven’t already seen a similar opportunity. Fuck off Daddy Bear We want to eat our fucking Porridge. Why would you create power hungry Ai machines in an country with one of the highest energy costs? The UK needs to learn from what happened to the US. Never let a country of meglomaniacs wooden horse into your country. Before you know it theyll be using it to drive your fellow countrymen to deluded madness filled with insatiable rage with the exact same learning algorithm used in the US. The US just doesn’t seem like the best place to conduct businesses anymore. Good time for that extra ISA allowance to land for investing in British companies Great were attracting investment with our government stance on AI now we need to tax it to be able to support everyone who will unemployed as job types shift with automation of entry level work. Shame everyone hates taxes and well just see record unemployment until the market eventually adjusts for it 10 years down the line with more tensions stoked between immigrants and majority British areas and Reform coming in charge to make us the next Christian nationalist Western state with no ability to organise a piss up in a brewery. Something even the Tory government could do during COVID lock downs. Good for investors does not necessarily mean good for the UK. It means they can profit enormously. Wheres that profit coming from? Yes... you. Makes a lot of sense really English speaking native population generally very well educated and wages are relatively low here from a US perspective for the sorts of specialist work theyre interested in. Since Trump took office its almost as though weve become the defacto adult in the room with Starmer being weirdly perfect to constrast the absurdity of the modern political pantomime. Uncertainty is bad for business especially businesses of this size with intentions to scale they plan in decades not quarters. Were one of the few countries that still builds and designs our own military equipment too Im sure Nvidia chips are going to play a large part in that. of course he is More jobs for people in the UK? Bro thinks he can invest anywhere else while Trump being the President So just to check when he talks about investing in the UK he just means setting up offices in the UK? Woohoo employment and all that but I dont entirely see what benefits that really gets the UK public. God knows theyll probably be paying even less than I do in taxes. Might even just get tax payer money through subsidies and tax tricks. What are the actual long term benefits for the UK? I assume theyre more than just jobs and Im just not recognising or thinking of them. Yay In the sense that Brexit cut the country off at the knees but theres now popular will behind rejoining? So like this might be the UKs economic low point? Its time to buy the dip? Is he aware we have 4x energy costs compared to the US? LOL at the people cheering AI investment. AIs have already been created which have display emergent ability to deceive their operators and resist being shut down. They can also code already. We have all the ingredients for an AI to escape the bounds its creators set for it and begin a cycle of exponentially improving itself. From that moment on humanity will no longer be in control of its destiny. Hopefully the AI that achieves supremacy which is really a matter of when not if at this point is a more compssionate capable and forward thinking leader than what is currenty populating most human governments and corporations. If he is going to invest here then we should make it a law that he has to sort out his shitty graphics cards first before they can spend a penny here. Post 23 South Korea close to $6 billion tank deal with Poland in June Author snowfordessert Even with appearance of drones there will always be need of tanks in battle. Tanks have evolved to its current form when antitank missiles and portable antitank weapons were developed so with appearance of FPV drones tank designers will go back to drawing board and search for solution. I doubt Russia will abandon its usage of tank even with the pummeling it received from Ukraine so Poland beefing up its tank fleet is not a bad idea. Those K2 tanks are legit Sooner or later even North Korea will have drone swarms like what took out the Russian tanks. Hope South Korea can prepare counter measures. Drones have proven they can assault anything any terrain. Then air force hammer bombs them. Ukraine has proven tanks are ineffective. Don’t tanks attract drones? 🤔 drones are the new tank. Post 24 UK confirms aim to buy F35A for NATO nuclear strike role Author paximperia Pretty rich of the Tories to demand a shift to CATOBAR/F35C as it was them that flipflopped around and cut it back to the skiramp/F35B approach in the first place. The Strategic Defence Review does not recommend reductions in fast jets for the RAF but it confirms the Governments commitment to GCAP to upgrade Typhoons and no reductions in number as there is a shift to a new mix of F35sBs and F35As. The Government is committed to upgrading Typhoons and driving exports of Typhoons abroad. There are upsides and downsides to this decision but full knowledge of the downsides really depends on the ramifications. A mixed fleet will always involve extra maintenance costs but those might be offset by benefits elsewhere from the A model. The balance depends on how this decision impacts other decisions. If we now get less than the 72 F35Bs for the Carrier air wing then its a colossally shit decision that will actively harm UK defence. If it results in a cut to GCAP funding then its a colosally shit decision that will actively harm UK defence. If GCAP funding isnt affected and we get the full set of 72 for the Fleet Air Arm plus extra F35A for the RAF...ok not such a bad thing. If this acquisition of F35A has the effect of persuading the government to also introduce to the Voyager fleet then Ill go ahead and call this an outright good thing at the moment because the RAFs tankers exclusively have systems they cant refuel the RAFs Poseidon or Wedgetail or Rivet Joint since they need booms like F35A. As for the intended role an air delivered nuclear weapon is something I strongly believe that the UK needs and F35 is the obvious platform to deliver it but if all were doing is joining the existing NATO nuclear sharing arrangements then I think that thats pointless. Without development of a British weapon to fill the role I dont see that were adding anything of particular value to NATO by this. This is pretty big right? We have only had sub based launch systems for a long long while. Buying these both signifies nuclear rearmament of our forces as well as the implication there will have to be changes to our nuclear doctrine to accommodate for this new delivery method. As always things like this aren’t done on the fly I’d imagine we have this whole thing unofficially ready already. So our nuclear deterrent is still dependent on the Americans. Good thing they have always been such sensible and reliable allies... Silly MoD. A for American. B for British. Genuine question. But does it have the legs for such a role? This looks like an awkward situation for the UK. We cant just pull out of the F35 programme but we cant stay in weapons programmes with the US longterm lest they withhold components or usage rights. Seems like staying in the partnership or leaving are both blunders to some degree. The UK may need another typhoon concorde type programme with either European or Pacific partners. Would it not be cheaper to simply fit the weapon to our existing Typhoons? What we need is A10s with LAZORS. Can someone sent UK a mail saying nukes can travel around the globe. You dont need jets? Has the UK taken his entire shaft into their throats. Im wondering about the wisdom of putting more of our nuclear strike capability in the technology of an unreliable ally. Seems like folly that will bite hard in the future. Fucking hell. you do this AFTER weve turned it down designed the carriers then go back to it? Are these going to be kneecapped like TACO suggested? After tRump admitted that the F47 sold to foreign countries would be toned down”. Why would anyone trust the US going forward? So much for trusting your allies. Maybe don’t sell weapons to countries you don’t trust. still buy American. theyll never learn Wow thats fuckin stupid hey the Americans are an unreliable ally and they might switch off our nuclear deterrant so lets build more bombs and buy American planes they can also switch off so we dont have to use our American rockets that can be switched off I swear people in Whitehall must be sniffing paint or something. Why couldnt we buy Gryphons or Eurofighters? When will we ever learn? Never. Never is the answer. Idiots. Some more sucking up to the TACO. The Brits have made some poor choices of late. Idiots. Could just buy the best money can buy and buy Swedish we are much more reliable as well Too short range to be of any use for a deterrent. Using a plane to deliver a nuclear payload is just stupid. Invest in submarine boomers and call it a day. Yay more nuclear weapons Post 25 North Korean defector sentenced after attempt to return to DPRK in stolen bus Author Logical_Welder3467 Life in South Korea is hard if you do not grow up in its educational system and pass their exams. It is not a system that readily accepts immigrants. Why the hell would he try to go back?! While North Korea is one hell on earth South Korea arent exactly heaven on ground especially if one escaped alone. that is a sad life. This article is behind paywall and none of Korean articles written in English language mention fact that this person has literally starved in South Korea as they have not eat anything for a week at a time unlike in North Korea where they at most had a period of one whole day of not eating anything by comparison. 북한에서는 하루 이상 굶어 본 적이 없는데 남한에서는 일주일 동안 아무것도 못 먹는 제 모습을 보니 돈이 없으면 죽겠다는 생각이 들었다”고 밝혔다. Korean to English by use of Papago machine translation language website Ive never starved in North Korea for more than a day but seeing me eat nothing for a week in South Korea made me think that I would die without money he said. North and South Korea are as polar opposite as it can possibly get. Trying to adjust to life in either country after moving from the other must be extremely difficult not that there are many South Koreans looking to migrate north lol. Trying to adjust to South Korean society alone without your family must be extra tough. He was living alone in South Korea and had left his family behind in North Korea. I kind of understand why he wanted to go back. Just crazy all over though. Poor guy. Reminds me of brook hadfield from Shawshank. Man’s institutionalized This is not a rousing endorsement of life in South Korea. Heard kpop for the first time and knew he had to get away from it. He was disillusioned by kpop. What a title 🤌 [removed] No matter what the circumstances dude is a moron I’m sorry. Imagine if Osama bin Laden tried to get back into the US with a stolen Cessna This guy must have sucked bad at Starcraft. Post 26 Greece asks India for combat data of Operation Sindoor Author ProduceSame7327 Real life modern combat datas are priceless information that any nations will drool over. I too would like to know what actually happened. Fat chance of that though Ελευθερία ή Θάνατος Man from these comments Canadians really seem to have bought every bit of Pakistani propaganda that was hurled at them no evidence no pictures just video game footage and yet. Surely the people of India would like the same. After weeks of nonanswers the Chief of Defense Staff confessed on Bloomberg that they had indeed lost at least one jet. So .....is it five? Where? With what weapon? Which jets? The Sindoor operation seems to indicate a burgeoning primacy of missiles like BrahMos which seems to have hit targets without being intercepted but the data is far from being comprehensive. How NOT to lose your Rafale [removed] Greece tryna restore the Roman Empire in the East or something? The Palaiologos family has died and buried in barbados iirc I wonder how that would go. Post 27 UK proposes wider ban on destructive ocean bottom trawling across English waters Author green_flash cant we ban trawling or do we need it that much? Just watched Ocean yesterday with david attenborough. Its so horrifying what theyre doing and that its actually legal for some reason. Its the equivalent of dropping napalm on vast swathes of the rainforest every day so they can more easily round up a single animal species. Good! Hopefully its not a too little too late situation but its definitely one of those best time to plant a tree was yesterday scenarios Please ban it all together. We NEED the ocean to recover Unfortunately the EU will likely sue us again because of it. They already were upset that we banned it in specific protection areas and was suing us in arbitration saying its unfair on their trawlers and that trawling is a sustainable practice. All waters Needs to be banned everywhere. Well the Dutch had an innovation but it destroyed the competition in France so the EU banned it. Turns the seafloor into the equivalent of a desert. Saw lots of evidence as a ROV pilot tech on the Grand Banks of Newfoundland In Sweden we restricted the coastal lokal fishermen so they cant survive instead. So thats another option to look in to David Attenborough strikes again! He is very old though we need a new advocate for conservation for when the inevitable happens... Speaking of bottom trawlers can we ban UKIP as well. Post 28 France opens complicity in genocide probes against FrenchIsraelis over blocked Gaza aid Author newsspotter It accused them of physically” preventing the passage of trucks at border checkpoints controlled by the IDF. As long as the probe also examines the other countries that closed their borders to Gaza eg Egypt Just gonna leave this here 1000s of Jews have left/are leaving France to move to Israel over the last 25+ years due to rising antisemitism and antisemitic attacks in the country. Would you want to move to a foreign country in the Middle East leaving behind your home friends culture? Its not a decision to take lightly and yet thousands of French Jews are making the move. Shits serious and their government does not seem to give one single shit. African immigrants in France live in ghettos and are unable to work in Paris because of bigotry. Black people in France are discriminated against and not allowed to participate in everyday culture because of the color of their skin. They want to open a probe that’s fine but they should also be probed for crimes against African immigrants in their capital city. This is a medieval witch hunt. There are literally videos of French citizens in Israel like filming themselves torturing abducted Palestinians after bringing them to Sde Teiman and Ofer prisons—the same places where Israeli soldiers were literally on camera That plus these French citizens who film *themselves* blocking aid trucks and directly committing war crimes absolutely should be prosecuted France has prosecuted its own citizens who went to commit war crimes in other nations including those who went to Syria and Iraq so people claiming it is somehow antisemitism to charge people for crimes they *film themselves committing* abroad are truly heinous [removed] Post 29 Carney to announce Canada will meet 2% NATO spending target by March Author Puginator In addition Carney is expected to announce that the Canadian Coast Guard will be folded entirely into the Department of National Defence — something other countries do. The coast guard is currently a special operating agency under the Fisheries Department with an annual budget of $2.5 billion. I wonder if that factors into the 2% because its an accounting move. It only makes sense that the Coast Guard is a part of DND anyway. Homegrown industries mentioned again. I want details already. Seems like a bunch of it is going to come from industrial manufacturing increases. Expect to see DND funded companies and factories to supply our own gear. That should put Canada at 12th highest defence spender in the world higher than Italy who have two aircraft carriers. Hopefully some R&ampD to build our own equipment. As long as that spending doesn’t go to US firms I am cool with it Drones are important too we have to be more prepared our poor guys will be slaughtered if they have to go to war without knowledge or protection from drones laden with explosives attached to a fibre optic line. Draganfly and Volatus Aerospace are two Canadian companies that I am hoping the Canadian Government invests in amongst others. We need to catch up to the modern warfare tactics. Also Blackberry and its cybersecurity knowledge and AI capabilities with its QNX and atHOC systems are something Canadians need to to be proud of and support. They must spent more Putins dog Trump and musk sitting next to the border I wish canada was buying all eu/Korean equipment. The reality is some equipment requirements make the usa the only option. Example korea makes a nice HIMARS substitute. Its just too heavy for our cargo planes I hope this is a real increase rather than the previous administration folding a bunch of random shit into the DND to make it look like there were increases without actually giving the armed forces the equipment and budget they need. Very happy to see military personnel are getting a raise. I hope the rest of the funding to hit the 2% goes to actual futureproofing in the event of more conflicts. Like a cyberterrorism unit drone specialization specifically arcticready ones antidrone tech advanced surveillance R&ampD on nanotech and other tech etc. Not just tanks and planes. ... aaaaannnd cue Trump to move the goalposts by saying that the 2% NATO target isnt good enough anymore. Seriously though this is long overdue and its sad that its taken threats from the US to get the federal government to step up. A good chunk of the money is earmarked for Arctic sovereignity via surveillance systems. I wonder if underwater drones will be the future. Living in the Arctic is only a step above living on a submarine. Drones could solve both those problems lol Hopefully that increase includes a bump in pay for soldiers and military equipment not just civilian office workers and IT contractors. There needs to be an increase in boots on the ground and compensation goes a long way in that recruitment effort. We need to ramp up our military and have them help with civil engineering and disaster relief as we do. Good because I think NATO will be engaged with Russia at some point soon. If were beefing up the Coast Guard as part of the DND I really hope we build the boats in Canada because this is something we should be good at when given the chance. Are we increasing spending or did the GDP drop that much? 2% is not enough. EU is finally realizing that and moving towards 5% targets. About time You better be buying Canadian or NATO weapons but nothing from the USA with my money Carney! I guess if our GDP numbers continue to tank under all the threats and tarrif moves from Trump it wont take as much spending to meet the 2 percent target? Can we please get affordable housing and rent in Toronto. Fucking hell.. I would imagine our GDP is probably down at the moment. I think Carney should focus more on fixing the ridiculous immigration problem Canada has and among it the housing crisis before any of this 2% nonsense. Hes just another Trudeau it seems. Post 30 Saudi Arabias Mohammed bin Salman invited to G7 summit in Alberta Author Puginator Well it’s not like the RCMP is going to chainsaw any nosy reporters at the summit. He saw pics those big ass saws Canadian lumberjacks used to use and got VERY excited... This is becoming Murder Inc. Summit. Hes gonna be in for a shock when he sees edmonton coming from that fancy as palace 😂 aka Mister Bone Saw Id love if this was part of a plan to lure him out of SA in connection with a soontobe announced ICC indictment. But I know thats just a fantasy. They did what he sawed there. Why?? And Trump should be turned away Um exsqueezeme? If Modi can come I see no reason to exclude king bonesaw Constantly putting up with dictators and murderers instead of calling them out is what is ruining the world today. There is no sense of right or wrong anymore just what can I get out of it?” So G8 now? Mohammed bin invited. I did hear we needed doctors but i wouldnt exactly hire doctor bonesaw over there.... How great it is to be rich. The G7 will lick his hands clean whenever he needs it. There’s nothing good that can come from this [ Removed by Reddit ] Bonesaw in berta # Mohammed bin bone saw He should be arrested and sent to The Hague. Hell hate it here. Its full of disgusting TREES with STICKY SAP that gets EVERYWHERE. Probably best to stay home. Good move! Carney was a mistake Post 31 Egypts new capital city to be built operated by Chinese construction firm Author Infidel8 Users often report submissions from this site for sensationalized articles. Readers have a responsibility to be skeptical check sources and comment on any flaws. You can help improve this thread by linking to media that verifies or questions this articles claims. Your link could help readers better understand this issue. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Greetings o wise Pharaoh! Your mission is to build a splendid new capital for your empire. Mission objectives reach a population of 2000 build three Grand Pyramids They built the new capital so they can live far away from the angry masses when protests break out. I dont particularly think its tax money well spent in this case but its going to be built anyway. It’s already built and finished Imagine the amount of spying equipment in this city Lol .. and when they cant pay their debt to the CCP they will become a new province of China? If China builds this city the way they have built developed cities like Shenzhen the Eygptians will have themselves a damn good city. they tried with the New Cairo but its also a mess. Thats hilarious. Hopefully it lasts longer than Chinese construction usually does. Will the city include Tofu pyramids along side the Tofu buildings? Should have built it at Amarna. Maybe it would go better this time. Better make sure they dont tear down the old government buildings. That tofu dreg wont last long... Set of the new Mummy 2077 movie with Brendan Fraser Jokes on Egypt. Six months in the building will start falling apart due to tofudregs construction and theyll still owe billions to China. Look up tofudregs construction if you dont believe me. China is rife with buildings built with inferior materials and contractors cutting corners in order to skim more off the budget to enrich somebody in the company. Also check out the Indonesia building collapse. That one was also built by one of the most prestigious construction companies in China. After the building collapse the heads of the construction project for China fled the country. Not to mention that a number of Belt and Road projects are under scrutiny due to bad construction. I don’t think anyone has to worry about the security issues of a Chinese firm operating the city because they’ll never finish building it. tofu dreg construction incoming. Surely Egypt has the talent to do this and not count on Chinese to do it or them... Post 32 Renault may set up drone production in Ukraine – Bloomberg Author jackytheblade Considering the latest success of the operation SpiderWeb do Putin and Trump really believe that Ukraine will accept a surrender? The upscaling of drones production should warn Putin Russia has got a huge border with Ukraine and theres no way they can stop drone attacks against critical infrastructures. Excerpt from Bloomberg article cited French automaker Renault SA will produce drones in Ukraine according to France Info. Renault will work with a small company to set up production lines dozens or hundreds of kilometers away from the frontline the French media outlet reported without saying where it got the information. The drones could be used by Ukraine and the French armed forces according to the report. The French defense ministry declined to comment about Renault. On Friday Defense Minister Sébastien Lecornu said that a major French car manufacturer would join forces with a French small defense company to equip production lines in Ukraine to produce drones. He didn’t identify the automaker. Renault which quit the Russian market after Russia invaded Ukraine in 2022 didn’t immediately return requests for comment. Renault is the French goto company whenever war comes. They were early in the tank game and now will be in the drone game. Pour lUkraine. 👍🇲🇫🇺🇦 Yep. UAs path forward will be in bilateral cooperation with interested / invested parties instead of formal alliances and blocs. First its gonna be miltech. Then the resources. And then maybe civil manufacturing. I dont get why they want to make them in Ukraine the only country where the factory is in danger. Anyone can explain the benefits? Not saying I dont support it. But I feel making them in nato territory and shipping them would be safer? Good to see they might end up manufacturing drones on Ukraines own soil. I guess it finally dawned on them they were no longer going to get squat from America and needed to build their own weapons since theyll no longer get even slingshots from us. Those drone going to have fantastic suspension Everyone in Europe buy a Renault!! Support Ukraine 🇺🇦 I know my Clio can fly!!!! Papa? Nicole! **BOOM** Hed start Le Drone Well... I picture a Renault drone to have a 1.5d engine and break midflight due to a malfunction in the distribution Renault? Okay okay its going to go boom one way I mean I’m not 100% sure I’d buy my war drones from the same company that made the LeCar. Just saying. Post 33 Russia strikes Kyiv and Odesa with aerial attacks at least two people wounded officials say Author ksp052 1202 days of terror so sad Post 34 Human Rights Watch warns renewed fighting in Indonesia threatens West Papua civilians Author Extra_Place_1955 From the article An escalation in fighting between Indonesian security forces and Papuan proindependence fighters in West Papua has seriously threatened the security of the largely indigenous population says Human Rights Watch in a new report. The human rights watchdog warned that all parties to the conflict are obligated to abide by international humanitarian law also called the laws of war. The security force’s military operation in the densely forested Central Highlands areas are accused of killing and wounding dozens of civilians with drone strikes and the indiscriminate use of explosive munitions and displaced thousands of indigenous Papuans said the report.” Another quagmire in the world. This conflict started after the decolonization of Indonesia from the Netherlands in 1945. The Netherlands continued to control West Papua until the region was transferred to Indonesia. Even though the West Papuans wanted independence their request for self determination was denied and in 1963 they became apart of Indonesia. another pointless and useless warns. Is anyone going to step up and do sh\*t about it? Haiti. Sundan. Ukraine. Uighur. The list goes on and on. Do most people in the global north have even heard of West Papua? Humans are tribal. Humans killing humans is probably more than norm and exception in the history of mankind aside from little bit of peace here and there. No one wants to play the world police particular not the global north which is saddled with our own problems right now just look at LA. Local people may just have to sort it out on their own. It will get worse before it gets even worse. It may be sad but that is the world we live in and die on. Post 35 Huge blaze breaks out in Kazan Russia Author ThickLocksmith7330 Whatever the cause it doesnt change the fact that a factory burned down and polluting the air around the city. Good. Paint and varnish factory? A lot of solvents to burn. Looks like an accident. Taurus? Post 36 Synagogue set ablaze in suspected antisemitic arson Author GK0NATO Probably someone who hides behind being merely antizionist. Post 37 Bolsonaro coaccused testifies on plot to ‘redo’ 2022 Brazil election Author AndroidOne1 You know if someone had tried the same thing against Bolsonaro in 2019 he would have tried to have the ringleaders flat out executed without any kind of trial. Redo is the incorrect spelling of the word coup. News snippet Brazil’s Jair Bolsonaro helped draft a plan to redo the election” he narrowly lost in 2022 a coaccused testified in the former president’s coup trial on Monday.Prosecutors accused the 70yearold farright leader who governed Brazil from 2019 to 2022 of having led a criminal organization” plotting to prevent leftist President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva taking power. The plot failed the charge sheet says for a lack of military backing.Bolsonaro and six coaccused appeared in the Supreme Court on Monday to undergo questioning. A seventh took part via videoconference from prison.Former righthand man Mauro Cid who has turned state’s witness told the court that Bolsonaro had received and read” a draft decree for the declaration of a state of emergency.He then edited” the document which would have paved the way for measures to redo the election” Lula had narrowly won and also envisaged the imprisonment of officials. Post 38 Israeli Navy commandos intercept ‘Gaza flotilla’ vessel redirect it to Ashdod port Author liMrMil That was predictable. Given the extremely public activists on the ship Im guessing theyll be interrogated and held for a bit then put on a plane back home. Well at least Greta. That was the whole point of the activists. Wouldve been interesting to see what they wouldve done if Israel wouldnt have intervened. The tiny amount of aid that was on the yacht and not consumed by the celebrities will be transferred to Gaza through real humanitarian channels. Lol Wow who couldve predicted that a military blockade in an active warzone would actually be enforced? What an insane outcome! They should have just let them through lol What would have happend if Greta got kidnapped? Would Sweden go and get her or would they leave it to Israel? We’re carrying a symbolic amount of medical aid Man I love performative bullshit 🙄 I swear to god I feel like I’m taking crazy pills looking at the comments on other subs. People are acting like they were just kidnapped by Somali pirates or something. No…. They have been detained trying to enter a port that they weren’t allowed to enter by a developed nation. They are going to be taken to Israel and then deported back to their home countries. They aren’t going off to some black site where they will have car batteries attached to their genitals. Everyone with more than a single braincell knew this would be the outcome and actually letting them get to Gaza would have put them in actual danger. Im dismayed that there are people calling this a kidnapping. Have words lost their meaning? They are going to watch 48 hours of Hamass invasion of Israel on October 7th. I hope it is the full unedited version What? But I was assured they would blow up the ship and murder everyone before dancing around in the fire and chaos like literal demons. Youre telling me they are doing the totally predictable and sensible thing instead!?! Surprisingly people dont let you just wander into warzones. At the end of the day it’s an active war zone… Idk what other outcome they were expecting? Israel isn’t going to let you just wander in as would any other country actively in a war. Should have just went through the port initially. Also idk why they needed 12 people on the boat in the first place? A sail boat that size should require at most 4 people to handle. Probably could have brought even more aid and supplies without the excess amount of people on board. and greta will be escorted to an airport and put on a private jet to be sent home safely. It’s almost as if the protestors expected this outcome… because Israel is intercepting all unauthorized ships. It’s just more song and dance for the cameras that does no one any good. What happened to the ten whole boxes of aid? Nothing but a publicity stunt that ended exactly as planned.. Redirected? I was assured by Greta that she had been kidnapped by Israel. It would have been worse for flotilla to land on Gazan shores and land into the hands of Hamas. They are fortunate that they were intercepted and redirected. But she just said they were kidnapped No country just lets you violate their borders virtue signal boat had plenty of avenues to get aid to gaza but its more important to get clicks and show up for photo ops for them. Nicely handled Howww daare youuuu! Called it. Specifically Ashdod too tbf Ashdod is the closest port so of course thats where itll be redirected They were very close to ending up like Vittorio Arrigoni. Its a very merciful act for Israel to save them. Post 39 Iran Rejects U.S. Nuclear Deal Proposal Says It Will Submit Its Own Nuclear Proposal to the U.S. Soon Author Wowthefrea So they rejected Trumps revised proposal that was weaker than the one obama had established that he dismantled. #TheArtofTheDeal They will create 10 reactors and 200 nuclear missiles. But they promise that 12 of them will be pointed at the EU 1 at Canada as long as it is an independent country and they will erect a golden Trump Tower in Tehran and gift the US an Airbus A380. Trumps whole issue is other countries are taking advantage of the US.. But his entire term has been giving everyone better terms and advantages.. Winning.. Iran is stalling for time again and Trump is falling for it because hes a moron. Would have been amazing if there was already a nuclear deal between the US and Iran that wasn’t arbitrarily blown up by a pants shitting fascist manbaby who wrecked said deal solely because a black guy who made fun of said pants shitting fascist manbaby made said deal. Oh wait that’s what happened and now Iran is going to have nukes. Another own goal by MAGA. Of course they will. That is a threat. I hope you all realize that. Weak ass administration gets raked over the coals by a country they say they can destroy easily Let F35 talk. What are the odds their nuclear proposal is just Too late we already have one quit wasting time TACO Another deal rejected. What’s our record so far this term? The art of the deal. Post 40 Satellite images show damaged North Korean warship moved to a port for repair report says Author FlyingScriptNo comments found==================== Post 41 Russian missile and drone barrage hits Kyiv Odesa killing 1 and injuring 8 damaging maternity hospital Author avdept Fighting with maternity hospitals is what they can do the best USA should rethink about switching sides. Its not too late to come back to the good guys. The idea that every time Rus launches a very costly and complicated barrage of artillery and ends up with single digit casualties makes me a combat veteran wonder what monkeys they have deciding target solutions… I’m NOT rooting for better” results just either a boggled at how bad they are at hitting targets for effect or b wondering how underreported Ukr casualties are. Post 42 Zelenskyy We’re very close to point when Russia can be forced to end this war Author EsperaDeus I hope that is true. It will make a huge difference if they can successfully execute more offensive drone attacks against Russian military and governmental targets similar to the one they pulled off last week. They cant play defense forever. They need to make the aggressor feel pain. really hope thats true. but even if the war ends Europe can never forget what Russia did here. I hope we can help Ukraine rebuild but people are so hateful these days. Were very close. We need strong support from the United States. The US needs unity with Europe and still needs to put pressure on Putin. He doesnt want to end the war but he can end the war under pressure from partners. In my opinion that gives us a chance. And this doesnt sound pessimistic at all – Im talking about reality. So the call for sanctions is for New Axis” partners like Iran North Korea and China? Sounds easy on paper but hard to implement — especially with China and the already existing trade disputes. Russia balancing on the edge for some time now. Economically and getting desperate with depleting military gear. But I dont believe Russia will just move away and take the defeat theyll surely look for some kind of win to safe face and I dont think itll be anything that Ukraine accept I suspect Trump will step in to be sure this doesnt happen. Trump has demonstrated a strong need for Putins approval. Trump sent Putin Covid test kits when Americans needed them. I´d like to believe that but hearing the exact same thing every couple of months for years doesnt really fill me with hope. Just give Ukraine everything it needs ffs. Not if Taco can prevent his boss from losing… ‘We’ does not include Trump. Unfortunately? I mean Ive been hearing for years that russia is on the brink of defeat... only for russia to take even more ground and not giving up Putin needs to end this in a bunker like a certain German man. He’s been saying this for years [removed] It will never end until Putin and his gang is in power. It will continue as a proxy even if they reach some kind of agreement. Putin needs that conflict to further scare and suppress Russias population. That is his only way of staying in power. Not a good look for Trump if America stops/reduces support for Ukraine and in response the EU steps up and Russia folds. In fact America Russia China and India will all look weak and badly lead. Trump Putin Xi and Modi Strong Men. Big bets on the table now. Post 43 IAEA chief says information obtained by Iran seems to refer to Israeli nuclear research site Author SelflessMirror If Iran goes for Dimona then we have a serious contender for dumbest strategic decision of the 2000s. I read IAEA as IKEA and I was confused. Thank goodness for the IAEA theyre so effective and useful. Imagine if we had had a gulf war because the IAEA is impotent and if no value. Oh wait... Post 44 Zelenskyy says US has not answered Ukraine’s request to buy air defense Author pebbleharmonies The White House is denying critical systems Ukraine needs for defense. They are doing this on purpose. Its almost as if conman Trumps fucking mineral deal doesnt do jack shit to improve Ukraines security. Feels like Russian retaliation for operation Spider Web comes out of US smh... They are sided with Russia. Theyre evil now deal with it. He is a Russian asset. All of his actions point it out very clearly. Putin owns him. United states of russian dick sucking at its finest. We will sell offensive weapons to Middle Eastern countries with atrocious human rights records but we will not sell defensive to a democracy that respects the rules of war even when defending themselves. i’m so disgusted with the leadership of my own country right now. To the surprise of .. nobody Trump is sooo evil Trump is owned by the Russians. America is owned. And American leadership is gone forever. The Americans caved to greed and evil. Shame on every one of them that voted Republican. The Free world will prevail without them. Trumpty puts his finger on the scale in favour of Russia once again. SHOCKER? Unfortunately not. White House zipcode is in Moscow now Countries fucked. The politicians in Washington fucked Ukraine and decided to go against the constitution. Hopefully the L.A. Protests are just the beginning this summer to fix America. Krasnov. Zelensky needs to keep telling the world how Trump and his Nazi regime are doing them dirty. Europe needs to fill the void. America is lost. It’s like Trump is a Russian asset ?! Trump is still checking with Putin if its OK. What about those sanctions the TACO president promised to introduce when RuZZia doesnt want peace? Of course not those systems has already been sold to the highest bidder How lucky Putin managed to make Trump do his bidding. Trump and Putin are happy. Such evil. as if we needed any further proof that Trump is on Putins side Sorry. Trump is too busy giving California to Russia. Krasnov has his orders. I thought it was about the money? So we make the minerals deal stop giving free aid... but then refuse to actually sell weapons? Oh wait its not about that. Its about appeasing Russia. Right now there are explosions outside my window. Drones are being shot down. Dont want to sell air defense systems? Fine. I hope that when the US needs help in the future they will get exactly the same response and the same attitude towards themselves. At this point they have chosen the side of evil. Jd still waiting for his thank you! /s Gotta help out his ally in Russia who publicly disrespects him Keep going america your word is worth nothing …. Trump will not agree to that. Hes on Putins side Dementia Donny is waiting on Putin to call him back first. Gotta follow protocols This completely obliterates the Republican keywords of it was all aid they didnt even pay us well look here they are.. willing to pay.. and what does the USSA do? nothing... All those movies over the decades always pitched the US as the good guys fighting for what is right. Didnt realise that it was mostly satire until now Because the current US administration are a bunch of cunts and they are not interested in helping anyone..........except themselves. I guess Zelenskyy should just say fuck trump and his extortionist mineral deal then. Republicans are traitors. Putin got in his ear a couple days ago. He’ll switch again in a few days and say he’s very disappointed” in Putin then switch again. Rinse repeat Things are pretty fucked up over here right now not sure anyone can rely on the US for their traditional role for a while. This is so depressing. A country invades another taking its land but US is helping the invader. How cruel can one be. Perfect how the most Heroic warriors of our time are being hung out the dry by Trump and the magas in deference to Putin of all thugs. How can the Yanks live with themselves? Your place in history is shot. Then Ukraine should not answer the request to proceed with the minerals deal They’re busy using it in LA. Were a bit busy preparing to turn the military industrial complex inward on ourselves. Come on US you want to treat the war like a business? Lets get on with it. Seems like tRump and his Republican minions dont want to help Ukraine. Seems they only support Putin. 🤔 That’s weird. I thought the US signed a minerals deal with Ukraine so that we could provide them with arms. Buy it from others. You deserve better. Trump is probably waiting to see if he needs air defence in California. He has already sent in the National Guard to stop protestors. Why would you buy systems from a country who has threatened to kill switch their allies? And one who has been especially and hostile to Ukraine? Idiot Trump turning down an eager customer for pats from his Daddy Putin. This is why he bankrupted multiple casinos. Hes a garbage businessman who only knows how to grift. Proving once again that it was never about the money he claimed Ukraine owed” the US. The $350 billion Trump made up and turned into an issue never was an issue at all it was just an easy thing for his uneducated followers to latch onto and try to turn their malleable minds against Ukraine. Here’s the US’ chance to get a big chunk of money from Ukraine create jobs and profit for the MIC and Trump doesn’t want to know about it. Hypocritical asshole trump gotta please his sugar daddy putin Of course not they sent it all to Israel. #Krasnov No shit cause Zelenskyy fumbled the bad soooo badly by giving the US the mineral rights deal. Now they have that they don’t give a shit. You negotiated with a orange douche bag who always acts in bad faith. As we their neighbours are learning everyday the USA is no longer friend or ally. Not dependable at all. Trump is now bored with Ukraine and has washed his hands of the whole thing now he realises that he wont get a Nobel peace prize like Obama did. I probably should have felt this way in 2003 during the invasion of Iraq but this is the first time Ive felt disgusted to be an American. I can say we were lied to by Colin Powell and w during the pretext to the Iraq War. But now we have a leader who is an avatar of avarice who has sold the presidency to foreign tyrants. The minerals deal already paying off... While I agree the US needs to support Ukraine once Trump was nominated why didn’t Europe start mass producing weapons? Nothing Trump has done should’ve come as a surprise. Why weren’t other nations more prepared? I really dont get this. I can understand being penny pinchers but I dont understand resisting them buying things. Im not at all fond of the US overall but I think the founding fathers are rolling in their graves so fast they can be used as a source of electricity. Which of course they also wouldnt do cause renewable energy sources are liberal gay communism or something. The absolute states. Of course not trump supports Russia! Next time going to war thinking the US is your ally and will give unconditional support remember ukraine. Thats sadly the sole reason Chinas trust has been growing exponentially all over the world and india will probably side more with russia openly soon enough because they know the US cant be trusted . It will certainly hit US in the next 510 years very badly economically or diplomatically!! USA is going to be an international pariah for years to come. The trust is gone. Its not for sale if it hurt trump boss. Why would they with agent Krasnov in charge? Trump want russia win so war end. Brother man. We are headlong tumbling into Fascism w that moron in charge. You gotta succeed without us. I’m so sorry. You need to seek help from other countries. Our democracy is broken. America is a toilet. As I recall Trump did. The imbecile said something in a way that Ukraine started the war and now they want to buy weapons. That was a few month ago. Post 45 Zelenskyy US has sent 20000 missiles bound for Ukraine to Middle East instead Author Aggravating_Money992 Not sure where the other two branches of government went? I’m sure we are still paying them yet Trump and his executive branch minions seem to be exclusively controlling everything at the federal level. Almost like the King that the founders absolutely never wanted to see here. Not a check or balance in sight. About time the judicial and legislative branches do something even if it’s only to finish up at the trough resign and allow someone else in to actually do the job they were elected to do. Since they obviously don’t have the capacity let me say that I’m ashamed for them. Just offer him a black sea resort in Crimea then his tune will change . Taco Trump is the most c*rrupt president in history. Krasnov Trump doing his part for Putin. Today’s USA is such a disappointment !wtf! Every day Trump talks like a traitor and acts like a traitor. Wonder if he *is* a traitor or just stupendously stupid. Maybe both. America has become Russias bed partner Who expected anything else? Trump want to keep the conflict run Trumps America the highest bidder wins I guess Our president is nothing but a crook and those who voted him in are just as responsible. Trump gravitates towards only maximum corruption autocracies because they alone can bribe him without breaching their own standards. This is part why NATO is discarded and Ukraine hated. Plus Trump was embarrassed by his fumbling corrupt approach that led to impeachment and cannot blame himself for anything and thus blames Ukraine. Oh and as Trump expressly says and proves regularly by actions he is a fascist violent dictator who wants to be the conqueror of Canada and Greenland and a maximum power Russia is his friend in splitting the attention and forces of the hated Europe. Impeach and remove or permakill America’s future. There is no other option. Watch what Trump does. Not what he says. United States of Traitors. I hate it here. To everyone else in the world im sorry. The donald I got the addresses mixed up. Traitors being traitors big surprise. We really need to hurry cutting those fucks out of the global scene. If these were allocated by Congress this is illegal. But who in Congress would have the humanity to actually challenge the overlord? To...circulate them back to Russia? This is proof taco is on Putin s side What a disgusting betrayal. Impeach him ffs Putin told the TACO to do it…. He’s just following orders So this is the first actual decrease of Ukraine support that was provided by Bidens admin. Fuck Taco predator Maga is a failure factory Trump is an arsehole Agent Krasnov at work Once again the US proves how trustworthy an ally they are Somehow Europe and Ukrain keep clinging on to the US when they know full well US is no longer their ally but rather an ally of putin instead. Tacoooooooo The US has abandoned countries that want to be free and democratic and now sides with Putin... Insanely sad shit The US has lost.its spine and self respect. Agent Orange did it again. I do hope Nato and especially Germany is listening and learning from this. We just cannot trust the usa any longer under this so called administration. they are no allies any longer. They have basically become traitors of the west themselves. Germanys new government and chancellour F. Merz ought to regognise this and as a warning when it comes to helping Ukraine sufficiently. Sounds like sabotage. Or he really wants to start the shit with Iran. Why would Russian Asset Trump do this? What a CHUMP Trump is The US can’t be relied on anymore. It’s up to Europe and other civilised countries to help Ukraine To where in the Middle East? The country that gave him a gold plated jet? Or the country that gave his soninlaw $2 billion? The Middle East” is kinda generic and makes it seem like they were sent to a variety of people or even American forces there? Did he send them to Israel? Trump is a Russian asset also a Vietnam draft dodger awesome president Before more people comment without reading the article and spread misinformation like claiming they will be sent to Qatar KSA Israel or whatever to kill kids or something you should know that these are actually antidrone missiles sent to US units not any foreign government. I greatly dislike TACO Trump very much. Yeah dude Trump wants you to lose and die. Sounds like trump is doing a solid for his pal Putin Krasnov at it again. What the actual fuuuuuucccckkkk Traitorous Trump Because trump and hes traitors support Russia. Impeach them all. Fucking weak punks Trump is a Putin puppet thats why. hes done his best to make america as inept and unqualified as possible. Trump is Putin‘s bitch. Trump is everything u hate about establishment. Corrupt piece of crap. Taco fuck I expected nothing less from this administration Krasnov. I thought me made a deal with Ukraine? Trump is a disgusting piece of shit How to say I want ruSSia to win without saying it. Wanker A classic Taco Trump chickenout moment over an arms deal. If that’s how reliable the U.S. is when it comes to existentiallevel commitments treating promises like throwaway gestures then no one should ever put themselves in a position of depending on F35 spare parts. And also definitely not on anything that starts or ends with Boeing. Thennnnnn no minerals? Right? The US wants Russia to win. From the timid Biden response to the outright hostility towards Ukraine and friendliness for Russia by Trump the US position is clear. The US is no longer a member or a friend of the Western democracies. How about Europe stops buying Russian oil and step up helping ukraine instead of criticizing the US for what they do or dont do? Wonder how those Palestinian protesters who either voted for trump or didnt vote at all are feeling now. Krasnov Agent Krasnov reporting for duty. I can find any other explanation of 🌮 asshole’s actions. What kind of pole in the ass does it take for the American people to start acting against the tangerine tyrant? The shaft is already deep inside but not a weep from the public. At least that is how it looks like for the outside world. It’s bizarre taking into account all the talk about freedom that is always present First Ukraine signs a deal with US disposes all of its nukes most of the weapons and gets nothing back. Then Ukraine signs off its minerals to the US and gets nothing back. Im Ukrainian and I call signing those deals a treason. Reddit is like MAGA base but opposite lol Orangutan makes everything to please his boss Everything this administration does shows an egregious amount of ineptness. It would be laughable if it wasnt such a tragedy. Big ass planes arent cheap. Just when you think theres no possible way for him to be a bigger piece of shit. Taco is afraid the pee pee tape will get released. Trump sucks! I’m gonna say it The United States of America is currently a terrorist state Even more reason to not buy US weapons. It’s very obvious that all of Trump’s spats with Putin are not real. I can’t say they are coordinated but there is definitely no teeth to them. I can’t say what exactly is the impetus here whether Trump fears Putin or Trump is a simp. The result is the same. Post 46 National Rally host farright leaders at Patriots for Europe event Author DoremusJessup If they were true patriots surely theyd only be interested in their own countries? Sure theres some fat payments from Russian and US donors at play here. Ah yes the patriots being the first to sell out their own country/continent as usual. Funny how the Patriots of Europe are all Russiapatriots first…. And Europe second. Greaaaaasy! Post 47 Sweden telecom sabotage Sweden probes massive sabotage after 30 telecom masts attacked in what officials call a coordinated strike Author boomership Users often report submissions from this site for sensationalized articles. Readers have a responsibility to be skeptical check sources and comment on any flaws. You can help improve this thread by linking to media that verifies or questions this articles claims. Your link could help readers better understand this issue. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Gee I wonder who is responsible. Russia only exports hate and destruction because it has nothing of value to offer to the world. Just goes to show that the enemy is never sleeping. I mean. Nice of them to ramp it up slowly so we dont get overwhelmed and have the opportunity to fix and harden and defend better. Definitely Russia 💯 Whats the benefit of doing that to Sweden? The russian way. We all know it ends with Sia. Surely it won’t be Russians right? It was Russia but Sweden will never officially admit it. This was either Russia or . . . Russia. Probably same guys that decided to ddos our national television and websites tonight as well Every inch of nato soil.” And then we do nothing for all the sabotage which only encourages more. [deleted] Russia most likely Stern warnings incoming! Europes signature move! Ruzzia of course. It’s just a Welcome to NATO” FU from Putin. Russia Trump the swedes provoked the poor Russians to do this Dane here sorry. This one was on us. We tragically lost a shipment of Legos bound for Finland over Sweden. We attempted to track them using the masts it didn’t go according to plan. We are a sending apology rødgrød and lakrids! Europe has still a long way to go. Potentially the whole civilian infrastucture must be militarized communications IT water transport etc. It will cost billions. Civilian infrastucture has no protection since every protection would cost extra and companies must be cost effective so the cheapest most vulnerable solution is in place. When the fuck is this considered an act of war? The very least we should be doing is counter sabotaging in Russia. Probe probe probe probe probe probe probe.... Russia Didnt even star trek mention at some point you shouldnt fuck with the swedes? Keep costing money to repair stuff and eventually less can be done nationwide. Death or weakness by paper cuts. A substation exploded in Gothenburg today. Russia is Like a pimple on your Ass. Its there its annoying You’re trying to ignore it but it just keeps going With the number and type of attacks Europe blames on Russia you’d think they’re some hyperpower. They can turn anyone into a puppet or asset and they can apparently strike anywhere in Europe clandestinely with impunity. russia is fucking testing NATO patience and look how far it can go and NATO is just being weak and all peaceful. Like Spain would never admit that attack on grid was Russia high frequency modulation of a gas emitted from meteorological balloon it was Ok so now send your jets to Ukraine Nobody expects the Spanish Inquisition! But seriously it was Russia We all know who did this.. the dastardly Danes! Soooo is Europe actually going to respond to this shit at some point? Surely Europe isnt the only one with criminals willing to break shit for money.... They were probably amateurs who wanted to create more tension. Professional saboteurs would have been more effective. Testing the waters. Sweden close enough to have them on edge. This will only increase alertness and surveillance of strategic infra so I would not be surprised if this is done intentionally by Swedish secret service or usa.. and of course everyone will blame Russia. Kind of win win situation. Same was done in Finland the targets were telecom and water towers... I dont see much sense in Russians doing this if they are not attacking tomorrow its just reducing their potential edge and increasing Swedish preparation. It just does not make much sense strategically. its trump all world unite against trump IDF? Because they kidnapped Greta and want to control the narrative? Or Russia bc Putin is batshit crazy. \ In Europe anti5G activists have also targeted telecom masts for destruction because they think they are bad for peoples health. Likely not Russia. Russia stages more costly attacks and know what is damaging and this attack didnt really damage much or cut the signal. It feels pointless. Right after Greta wad imtercepted... It was Israel. Greta Thunberg was on an aid boat headed for Gaza and got diverted to Israel. Netanyahu said anyone giving aid to Israel would be an act of war. Or maybe Russia. Probably Russia. Post 48 Shein seen boosting Indian manufacturing as U.S.China trade war shakes up supply chains Author kayr__kayr I am beginning to get the feeling and starting to see some evidence that Trump has made a colossal blunder. In effect he has sidelined his country and the rest of the worlds economy is moving on and doing without the United States and leaving the nation in the dust. Something Trump thought was impossible. So in other words they arent moving to America like Trump said? As an Indian thank you Trump. Single handedly boosting Indias economy. 10/10 will hope he becomes the president of US again. Post 49 Iran and Russia sign deal for eight nuclear plants Including Bushehr The Jerusalem Post Author St_Gregory_NazianzusNo comments found==================== Post 50 Czech court sentences Colombian to 8 years for arson attack which officials think is tied to Russia Author rezwenn The court said the man received orders on the Telegram messaging app and was promised $3000. He was also planning one more attack possibly at a movie theater in Prague. Wtf! Telegram? Interesting. And just less than a week ago it happened this in Romania. . Obviously tied to Russia too. 8 years very long no? If it was a croatian would they get a similar sentence? Just asking. Now $3000 to do some crazy arson like 36 times record it and then get paid after is the wildest worst risk to pay ratio ever. Its always the smoothest of the smooth ones... Post 51 Canada wildfires smoke turns UK skies orange Author BobLawblaugh Sorry about that. Probably a nice change of pace from the regular grey ones. I remember when the australian bush fires 4 or 5 years ago turned the skies in new zealand red. It’s kinda crazy already here. And it’s only fucking June. Northern Ontario we’re not even close to peak season. My bad guys. Hope were still on for tea. The irony is Im in Vancouver BC and my skies are clear. The UK just needs to say I hate rabbits to resolve the issue. Sorry eh? Me sitting in the UK with blue skies 👀 Sorry lads. Looks like a nice sunset huh wondered why the moon was red. ItS JuST SumMeR fox news probably Just trying to make the US skies the same colour as Trump’s skin to remind them what they voted for. Sorry A few years ago the wildfires were so bad in my neck of the woods in Canada that the skies were red and ash was falling like snow. It was like being in Silent Hill or something. We did notice the moon being rather red on Saturday night I must’ve missed that one. It’s just been grey and cloudy as here the last few months. Ahhh yes I remember when the sun was completely blocked out here in the PNW a couple years back . Good times. I was wondering why the moon was orange last night Its grey and cloudy today anyway Sorry UK! Sorry about that CW cousins we were trying to send it south of the border. Orange skies? All Ive see over the last week is grey! I thought there was a special moon last night. I went to empty the bins saw it and thought how cool it was. Wait this affects them from all the way across the ocean? In ireland and didnt notice anything The sky is very hazy in Switzerland and it is difficult to see the mountains in the distance! Edit spelling Since when? All I see is grey and rain Stupid wildfire robbed my chance to watch aurora borealis last week dammit. Same effect was noted during Dickens time I believe. Remember when Canada sent firefighters and airplanes to help in the California wildfires? Are they going to return the favor? Listen boys I just wanna say sorry to the UK or whatever for the orangeass sky. That wasn’t supposed to happen. It’s probably Randy’s fault guy’s been grillin’ non stop like it’s the Cheeseburger Olympics. Whole country’s smokier than a Snoop Dogg concert. I told him Randy!! Ease up on the propane bud! But he’s too greasy to listen. Anyway hope your tea still tastes normal and Big Ben ain’t melted or somethin’. Blame Randy not Canada. Enjoy. We’ve been choking on it all summer long for four years in a row here in Minnesota. Apologies buddies Pretty picture tho Wildfires wildfires wildfire wildfires wildfireseseess? That should make Trump happy. He likes things that look orange. We’re actually sorry about this. I took a picture of a few nights ago at around 730pm. It was so hazy from the smoke that it looked like dark neon red to the naked eye. You’re welcome I bet most of you haven’t seen an orange sky before!! Next week will send you some Northern Lights !! Sorry buds Nope just Trump’s reflection. [deleted] Post 52 Ukraine Says It Has Stepped Up Its Drone Game Again Author EcstaticMedium6320 I was reading how the cost of intercepting drones with missiles is orders of magnitude greater than the drones. In this drone war the best defence is a good offence because your money is better spent attacking the drone factories and their supporting infrastructure to keep enemy drones from being made or obtained in the first place as opposed to trying to intercept them when theyre coming at you. Equally important is to know where the best targets are. Hopefully Ukraine has good channels to pay Russian informants for usable intel. Russias economy has taken such a hit from Putins insane pursuit that this should be a hot market. Heres hoping that Ukraine has many more projects in the same pipeline that Operation Spider Web came from. Hard to find a group more inspirational these days than the Ukrainians. Brave. Innovative. Everything Americans used to—and still should—honor. Oh an innocent victims of treachery and war crimes too. I love how Russia gets their ass blasted these days 😍 Before the UkraineRussia war I hadn’t heard much about the using of drones in largescale military operations. It’s a game changer. Stepping up from being the best drone game on the planet is a wild concept. Looks like some pretty sweet tech. Perhaps Ukraine will share it with other governments if they commit to helping Ukraine remain a free nation. If operation spider didn’t demonstrate how competent Ukraine is I don’t know what will. Here’s to many more projects in the pipeline. How you can step it up more? Nuclear FPV drones? Already 2 SU30s blyatd. 🙌 Ukraine should start fitting some of their explosive drones with mini OTDR modules to protect battlefield fiber lines. When a comms drop is detected a drone could be deployed to the line run an OTDR scan to pinpoint the distance to the cut translate that into GPS using a preloaded flight map and fly straight to the sabotage point. If enemy interference is confirmed either visually or just based on timing/location the drone can detonate on target. Yess lets goo! Slava Ukraine Start launching drones from garbage trucks. Send the drones along the sea and behind the western flank and deploy them through garbage containers. Dude has more cards than a winning Balatro hand Im expecting to see Ukraine deploy protoss carriers in the near future Let those booming buzzers rip! High gear baby. Kick it! How long before it becomes the battlefield of Screamers https//en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Screamers_1995_film Dji making bank Bees with teeth. I mean drones with rifles RPG tubes and SAM launchers. Post 53 IDF destroys Hamas compound under Khan Yunis hospital Author thatshirtman The original title was IDF destroys Hamas compound under Khan Yunis hospital The current title is WATCH IDF exposes Hamas compound under European Hospital in Khan Yunis The title on the site is subject to change as new information develops. *Last updated 2302 UTC* For anyone wondering the legality of Hamas and Israels actions Hamas using hospitals as military bases is a clear violation of international law. It removes the protected status of the hospital and is clearly defined as using human shields. Israel ordering hamas to leave the hospital and when they refused warning that they would strike the hospital is perfectly in line with international law according to the International Commitee of the Red Cross. https//www.icrc.org/en/document/protectionhospitalsduringarmedconflictswhatlawsays Putting a Hamas command center where senior Hamas officials would meet directly under a neonatal unit seems evil even for Hamas though it sadly is in line with statements from their own leaders where they have said 2 million dead Palestinians is a worth sacrifice for the liberation of Jerusalem. Morally corrupt to say the least! The tunnel were not flooded back then? Why they are still usable? Again? How many times are they going to strike this tunnel? Hamas are cowards. Hiding under a hospital. Get them all! Bitch Hamas using hospitals as cover is a new low for them. Post 54 Report of explosion injury at U.S. Kadena Air Base in Japans Okinawa Author Thalesian Me every time I go on reddit *fucking what now* Public broadcaster NHK reported that the facility belonged to Japans Self Defense Forces and was used to temporarily store unexploded ammunition. Explosion at an UXO storage managed by Okinawa prefecture government. Four JSDF soldiers suffered minor injuries including burns on fingers. No fatalities. UXO went boom. Shit happens. Ah a UXO. Okinawa was bombed so heavily that on base residents are not allowed to dig more than 3 inches without inspectors. The failure rate was like 60% on bombs iirc. I hope someone hadnt lit a cigarette...ohwait. 私の名前はスティーブOです。これは掃海艇です [deleted] Post 55 Elon Musks father to attend proKremlin event in Russia hosted by farright ideologue Author Aggravating_Money992 Ah Errol Musk the man who raised a child bride as his daughter and then married her. Exactly the person you would expect to be friendly with Russia. The shit Apple doesn’t fall far from the shit tree Randy. Why do the worst motherfuckers seemingly live forever and face no consequences? Did he bring his daughterwife. Thank goodness Elon has a briefcase full of everyones social security info to offer as a downpayment for a new dacha. we have the most cartoonishly evil people tampering with our futures and there are stupid fucks cheering them on. i fear for the future His son has been hanging out with a proKremlin far right ideologue. This isn’t exactly surprising. Daddy looking for a new job for his son? dont forget Alex Jones is also there these are russian puppets and have been fucking US to the best of their ability Is he taking a break from knocking up his step daughter? Now there’s no doubt in my mind Elon’s and his DOGE goons such as Big Balls are collecting our data and sending it to Russia. We’ve been sold out it. I hope the West responds by sanctioning him and Elon Musk. Then his son and taco don reunite and fall back in love in this summers romantic comedy Comrade My Comrade” Sachs is there too. Alex Jones too Hell is empty and all the demons are here Fast horses make fast horses as Elon likes to say. funny how the Russians are now so accepting of Nazis. Alex Jones is going too. Remember when they used to say people on the left were associated with Russia? Like father like son. Both suck. He a Nazi 😱🤯🙄 You mean the groomer Errol Musk? Shocking Surprise surprise! The turd doesnt fall far from the anus Like son like father. Family of fascists Is he also making arrangements for Elon to accept the offer of asylum in Russia? So the shit apple doesnt fall far from the shit tree. Russians are amongst the most intelligent people” Yup that intelligent the used vodka as a currency and many of them died from liver failure did I mention they sided with the nazis at one point ? . I’d like to know how they spelt Nazi with no Z in their alphabet. There is intelligence everywhere Errol you’ve just got to look for it . They’re almost all the way in the open now… confident bunch of cowards they are… His favorite expression seems to be it would be foolish.” An easily manipulated dullard like his son. Nazi gonna Nazi so a regular day then Told you that mofo was from the darkside! Musk doesnt even try to hide his support for Russia. Says all you need to know about Elon and his family pro dictatorship pro Oligarchy. Not surprise if russian get Starlink soon. The chase begins and the digging starts. In other words the dispute continues. Unfortunately less via social media. My hope democracy is the winner. Wow both his parents are dispicable Wtaf There you have it Nothing to see here. Look away please. because of course he is…… Concerning Geezer Dirty old geezer South Africa thinks being aligned with Putin and Xi makes them independent. But this is more about price fixing gold and diamonds. The fuq is going on Dicks making more dicks… Tell his plane to fly over the sea for a bit before landing to Soviets... The guy owned a diamond mine in Africa. What standard are we holding him to? No surprise here This crap just keeps getting better wtg usa your responsible for all of this but at least you made America great again *surprisedpikachuface.gif* This surprises no one Shit hole humans Shocker. Hes a giant sack of shit just like his son. McCarthy was ahead of his time... Because of course he is. Nothing in that headline surprises me. and this is supposed to surprise me? Liberty or conservatism cant have both Post 56 In first outside confirmation of Tehrans claims to have obtained vast trove of Israeli intelligence IAEA chief says information stolen by Iran refers to Israeli nuclear research site Author Wowthefrea NO ONE LOOK AT THE TEXTILE FACTORY Post 57 Iran expands dogwalking ban Author IckySweet The problem with Theocracies or any extreme political movement is the constant drive for Purity that constantly forces them to become more extreme. Covered hair becomes a vail a vail becomes complete body covering complete body covering becomes a full face covering. Next year the authorities will want to ban dogs from public places. Then the year after they will want to ban dogs completely. If they can get away with baning something as lovabpe as dogs it will signal that the population is pliable and they will want to ban everything that is perceived as forbidden. Nothing will out you as a horrible evil person faster than hating on puppies. *The ban which mirrors a 2019 police order that barred dog walking in the capital Tehran has been extended to at least 18 other cities in the past week. Transporting dogs in vehicles has also been outlawed* Dog ownership has been frowned upon in Iran since the 1979 Islamic Revolution with dogs viewed as unclean by authorities and a legacy of Western cultural influence. Really? Dog is shephards best coworker and friend. Who should shephards employ ? Politicians to bark at predators and thiefs? The comic book bad guys strike again! Not as bad as the Afghan no women in window” ban… [removed] They probably found dog owners are more compassionate people you wouldnt want the slippery slope of compassion posioning your Theocracy. I you dont know to do it. Ill show you how how to walk the dog... This is just idiotic. And I thought when the religious nutcases in Iran cannot get more ridiculous they exceed expectation with flying colors. What is next? Murdering girls because of hair ...... oh wait .... Gotta love religion When your theocracy has issues with pups its time for a new god. One man was arrested for allegedly walking his dog but he stated I was not walking him because Iran. Iran so far away. Just to get away. What a bitchmove Dont know who said it but theres a saying that goes The true measure of any society is how it treats its most vulnerable members. Dogs would be a good example. Of the reasons to invade Iran this might be higher on the list than the nuclear program. Very similar to the taco regime Boop a heckin pupper on the snoot? believe it or not execution Honestly I get it. But I think Id like to see leash laws that are both prominent and conspicuous. Like everywhere. Dont let your dog or any pet off a leash. Ever. And very strict and severe punishment for any lawbreakers in this regard. That way pet owners know and understand how much of a burden they are on society. I think this captures the spirit of a dog ban. I think they are on the right track with it though. We need this in the USA. Dogs are obnoxious Post 58 Hungarian PM thinks Ukraine wont join EU because it cant be accepted into NATO Author Creol6969 There are EU countries that are not in NATO like Austria and Ireland Hes a Russian stooge what do you think hes going to say??? Hungarian PM is a moron” Fixed it for you no need to thank me Old corrupt lizard with outdated understanding of geopolitics dooms another country nothing new. Hungarian PM thinks So much for an honest article! Should it not just be idiot parrots ruZZian propaganda? Hungarian PM is a fat cunt! The way things are going Ukraine wont join NATO. . . . NATO will join Ukraine given Ukraines record of single handedly kneeling Russia. Can someone explain to me why Hungary hasnt been kicked out of the EU and NATO at this point? Orban is an obvious Russian stooge and is openly hostile to both organizations. The EU cant have another puppet of Putin as a member Correction orban proves for the 256tg time that is an absolute buffoon. Not how it works buddy Hungarians really need to dump that guy. Their elections are in 2026 This degenerate crook should gtfo already These fucking idiots have quite literally *all day every day* to refine their talking points and make sure what theyre saying at the very least makes sense. But they just straight up dont even bother lmao Everything he says do the complete opposite also do the same with Putin and Trump and we may actually get somewhere. We all already know Orbam is a moron we need no further proof please stop sending more. Orban is nothing more than an autocrat sniffing Putins butt while feasting on EU financial support while flagrantly violating EU legislation and human rights. Nothing he says is worth listening to least of all his stances on Russias invasion of Ukraine. Ukraine will not join EU because V4 countries will never allow the shrinking of their EU development fund shares by making Ukraine a huge country with titanic loads of work and investment to be made the unions primary investment priority. Everything else from historical grievances territorial ambitions agro or transport sector are just secondary excuses used to rally right electorates and save face. Any framework of meaningful UA Europe cooperation will have to be either bilaterial like Renault considering building drone factory lines in Ukraine directly going over the heads of Poland and other neighbors and Rheinmetal also cooking something like this or clusterial Scandinavia and/or Baltics and/or UK initiatives with UA Who says it cant be accepted into NATO? Russia? ffs Post 59 Explosion On SingaporeFlagged Ship Off Kerala Coast Navy Responds Author DistinctAttention323 Users often report submissions from this site for sensationalized articles. Readers have a responsibility to be skeptical check sources and comment on any flaws. You can help improve this thread by linking to media that verifies or questions this articles claims. Your link could help readers better understand this issue. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Post 60 Panama Canal boss warns MSC ports deal threatens principle of neutrality Operator says purchase of Hutchison assets poses risk to waterway’s compliance with US treaty with Central American nation Author DoremusJessupNo comments found==================== Post 61 Israel orders military to stop Greta Thunberg’s boat reaching Gaza Author TheTelegraph Users often report submissions from this site for sensationalized articles. Readers have a responsibility to be skeptical check sources and comment on any flaws. You can help improve this thread by linking to media that verifies or questions this articles claims. Your link could help readers better understand this issue. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Yeah that’s literally how a blockade works. What a dishonest headline. Theres a blockade around Gaza. All boats approaching the combat zone are subject to a standing order for the Israeli Navy to board and diver them. Its been the status quo for over 20 years. Which is what they were banking on. They now get to complain about being held up by Isreal while also not having to go into an active war zone with a decent chance of them getting hurt/ kidnapped. Seeing world leaders getting pressed by this little kid over the past couple years has been hilarious. If you actually read the article the official making the statement describes them as accomplices bringing help to Hamas. That’s the reason they’re invoking to stop them. It has nothing to do with keeping them safe from Hamas. Hopefully they can arrive safely and deliver aid. [removed] Paywalls SUCK! The Gaza Humanitarian Fund recently delivered 1 million meals to Gaza. No news. No hashtags. Greta is coming with 100kg of flour. Internet exploding. Ask yourself why. Surely now they’ll turn to Egypt and ask THEM to lift their blockade to allow their small boat full of aid to enter Gaza right? EU is a coward for not standing to it principles against genocides and war crimes protecting its Europeans MP on the boat and citizens of its European countries. [removed] [removed] They already know that theyre going to be stopped. They cant be that stupid. Its all for media attention. [removed] [removed] Never seen her complain about all the rockets being fired and pollution going into the Iron Dome and the Ammo for it but suddenly pollution is a big deal here now. Good. Hamas doesn’t need another hostage. This was a forgone conclusion Israel doesn’t mess around with its blockade There’s been a blockade in Gaza for a while. I’m not gonna try and act surprised Israel is saying this. Didn’t she do this a few weeks ago and her boat also got stopped? ***The Telegraph reports*** Israel has ordered its military to stop aid boat from reaching the Gaza Strip. Israel Katz the Israeli defence minister vowed to take whatever measures necessary” to stop the vessel landing at the warravaged enclave. You should turn back – because you will not reach Gaza” Mr Katz said addressing the directly and describing her and her companions as the antiSemitic Greta and her fellow propaganda spokespeople”. He went on I have instructed the IDF Israeli Defense Forces to act so that the ‘Madeleine’ hate flotilla does not reach the shores of Gaza – and to take any means necessary to that end. Israel will act against any attempt to break the blockade or assist terrorist organisations – at sea in the air and on land.” Ms Thunberg is one of a dozen activists aboard the Madleen sailboat which left Sicily last Sunday carrying food and medical supplies with the aim of breaking Israel’s sea blockade of Gaza. The group of activists said they were hoping to reach Gazan waters as early as today in order to deliver aid to Palestinians. **Read more** Yeah... its a blockade. Post 62 /r/WorldNews Live Thread Russian Invasion of Ukraine Day 1201 Part 1 Thread #1348 Author WorldNewsMods Today the first stage of the prisoner exchange agreed in Istanbul has begun. More stages will follow — at least that’s what was discussed with the Russian side. I thank everyone making it happen. I also held a meeting on June’s international agenda no meeting should be hollow. If it doesn’t bring us closer to ending the war through diplomacy it must help strengthen our defense our active operations or increase pressure on Russia. I thank our warriors for their tenacity. The most intense fighting continues in the Pokrovsk direction in the areas of the Kursk operation and along the border in the Sumy region. Russian tactics remain the same everywhere ignore losses and try to advance. But this potential isn’t infinite. A certain level of casualties — and our actions — should and do hinder their advance. https//xcancel.com/ZelenskyyUa/status/1932139159973466507#m Our people are home. Ukrainians are returning home from Russian captivity. Today an exchange began which will continue in several stages over the coming days. Among those we are bringing back now are the wounded the severely wounded and those under the age of 25. The process is quite complex with many sensitive details and negotiations continue virtually every day. We count on the full implementation of the humanitarian agreements reached during the meeting in Istanbul. We are doing everything possible to bring back every single person. We are working toward this at every level. We must bring home everyone who remains in captivity. I thank everyone who is helping. https//xcancel.com/ZelenskyyUa/status/1932043354075709799#m I met with G7 and EU ambassadors in Kyiv ahead of the G7 Summit in Kananaskis and outlined Ukraine’s position on key issues. I thanked Canada for its leadership as the G7 Chair. We discussed further defense support for Ukraine and sanctions pressure on Russia. We also focused on the upcoming Ukraine Recovery Conference in Rome the special tribunal for the crime of aggression and the return of the forcibly deported Ukrainian children. I reiterated Ukraine’s commitment to further essential reforms on the path to joining the EU and NATO. Our country has already demonstrated unprecedented progress in the extreme circumstances of a total war. We need our accession to the EU and NATO to advance. Ukraine remains strongly committed to peace. Unfortunately meetings in Istanbul demonstrated that Russia continues to obstruct peace efforts. Moscow rejects a ceasefire avoids a meeting of leaders and does everything to stall the process. I underscored the critical importance of continued U.S. engagement and efforts. We expect strong signals from the upcoming G7 leaders summit and concrete steps to strengthen Ukraine and increase pressure on Russia. It is crucial to force Moscow to abandon the language of ultimatums and take concrete steps toward just peace that the whole world is waiting for. https//x.com/andrii_sybiha/status/1932136215945388350 Glad to welcome Ukraine’s true friend my Lithuanian colleague @BudrysKestutis. Despite Russian strikes he came to reaffirm Lithuania’s firm support. I appreciate his brave visit and our strong bilateral partnership. We coordinated positions ahead of major EU and NATO summits. https//xcancel.com/andrii_sybiha/status/1932109542730703218#m Today together with my team I had a meaningful meeting with the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Lithuania @BudrysKestutis. I thanked Lithuania for its unwavering defense support for Ukraine. Ačiū draugai!🤝 https//xcancel.com/AndriyYermak/status/1932149170304909438#m Quite a heavy night again. Cant confirm yet but looks like British consulate is hit in Kyiv. Quite a few shaheds are still buzzing above to the cannonade of anti air bursts. And they hit another hospital. Its interesting that Russia screams about Ukraine constantly hitting civilian targets but nearly all the videos are military related. Russia then says they only strike military targets but theyre constantly hitting civilians. This is an unscientific survey. If youre a regular on the daily live threads you can respond to this comment below. 1. How often do you check the *embedded* live thread within the live thread ex. every couple of hours every other day stopped because of mental health never etc.? 2. Whenever you visit the live thread do you use a mobile browser the official app or a combo of two of them or maybe all of them? 🚜 From the Live thread from ChrisO\_Wiki 1/ Russian soldiers face being sent to their deaths if they appeal publicly for volunteer aid according to Russian warbloggers. Commanders regard it as reflecting badly on the Russian army forcing aid appeals to be made anonymously. Even so much of the aid is still stolen. ⬇️ New thread 1/ Colonel Anton Necherda the commander of a Russian Army regiment is reported to have been arrested for a string of brutal crimes against his own men including extortion beating torture and murder. His own deputy a lieutenant colonel was allegedly one of his victims. ⬇️ I felt a fucking huge wave of relief reading this 🇺🇦❗️🇺🇸 One of the likely scenarios for the continuation of the war is one in which Trump will blame both sides — both Moscow and Kyiv — for not following his instructions moving away from diplomacy — Foreign Policy citing sources in the White House. ▪️At the same time they say that the Trump administration will NOT leave Ukraine completely and will not stop providing Kyiv with satellite intelligence ▪️Politicians in the US — including most Republicans — understand that a lot is at stake for Washington in the event of a possible loss of Ukraine We left St Petersburg in 1999 and at this point Im glad we did. The city is beautiful full of rich history and the people are more open more willing to share their real selves easier to connect with than Americans are. The food is generally healthier than in American restaurants and supermarkets. Its way more walkable than most of America and the public transportation is great. It is also easily the most liberal city in Russia. However the government is acting against the best interests of everyone but VVP and his cronies. Russian people have not seen anything positive from this operation from what I can tell and still many support it. Im highly disappointed in whats become of my Motherland. Kids are being brainwashed in school there is no innovation just war propaganda mostly. No wonder Yeltsin went into a deep depression after resigning he could see where everything was going even in 1999. Where are the Decembrists when you need them? **The estimated total combat losses of the enemy from 24.02.22 to 09.06.25** personnel about 997 120 +970 tanks 10 915 +4 troopcarrying AFVs 22 759 +11 artillery systems 28 934 +42 MLRS 1 411 +1 antiaircraft systems 1 183 +0 aircraft 414 +0 helicopters 337 +0 UAVs operationaltactical level 39 818 +167 cruise missiles 3 315 +0 warships/boats 28 +0 submarines 1 +0 vehicles and fuel tanks 51 348 +123 special equipment 3 911 +0 Data are being updated. Fight the invader! Together we will win! Source Russia grows weaker every day. Slava Ukraini! New data on Russian recruitment Based on federal spending on signon bonuses Russia recruited 89601 men from JanuaryMarch 2025. This represents a 22% increase over the same period last year. Not as bad as it could be but 1k russians/day signing up *probably* still means their forced grew in the first quarter. Having a proRussian US president installed probably helped. Some of these are brainwashed desperate people who are probably stupid or ignorant enough to believe that Trump was going to force through a russian victory very quickly. https//bsky.app/profile/jakluge.de/post/3lr6nq4ck4c24 ISW Special The SinoRussian relationship is closer and more interconnected in 2025 than it has ever been. The cooperation between Beijing and Moscow is a nexus—their relationship is a flexible and strategic knot of interconnections across the military technological economic and political domains and is not bounded by the structural rigidity of a formal defensive alliance. This SinoRussian nexus has solidified against the backdrop of the war in Ukraine. Moscow and Beijing have both exploited the circumstances of the war to deepen their strategic entanglement and it has therefore become strategically impossible to separate them at this time. The PRC’s material support for the Russian war effort gives the PRC considerable influence over the outcome of the war in Ukraine. The PRC is undoubtedly watching the battlefield in Ukraine closely and observing international reactions to Russia’s aggression and likely hopes to apply those military and diplomatic lessons to its future endeavors in the western Pacific particularly in the case of an invasion of Taiwan. Key takeaways * Kremlin officials and the Russian Ministry of Defense MoD announced on June 8 that Russian forces reached the DonetskDnipropetrovsk Oblast border and are conducting offensive operations into Dnipropetrovsk Oblast — an oblast that Russia has not illegally declared as annexed. * Russian officials have repeatedly signaled that the Kremlin has wider territorial ambitions in Ukraine including in Dnipropetrovsk Oblast. * Russia continued to baselessly accuse Ukraine of failing to repatriate the bodies of killed in action KIA soldiers on June 8 — part of the Kremlins efforts to undermine mutually agreed upon confidencebuilding measures with Ukraine. * The Kremlin appears to have orchestrated a concerted media campaign that aimed to use the purportedly agreedupon KIA exchange in order to discredit Ukraine and promote Russias justifications for its war to both domestic and international audiences. * Russian officials appear to be setting conditions to withdraw from international arms control treaties likely as part of preparation for a potential future war with NATO. * Ukrainian forces reportedly struck a chemical plant in Tula Oblast on June 8. * Ukrainian and Russian forces recently advanced near Toretsk and Russian forces recently advanced in the Pokrovsk direction. shows Russian troops have reached the Dnipro Oblast border Really impressive rates. 97% of drones and 95% of missiles intercepted. Of 479 drones and 20 missiles only 14 drones and 1 missile found their target. Russia to keep up appearances now stressing their remaining functional bomber to the limit to do this tempo of bombing operations. They are stressing these airframe and engine that are 30+ years old with heavy bomb load and long flight distance We can expect some of their bomber just fall off the sky soon Kharkiv Oblast ranks second in Ukraine for internally displaced persons amid ongoing war. these antagonistic attacks we keep seeing are amazing. You love to see it. Eyes on the main prize though There are still over 600K Russian occupiers inside Ukraine. These are the guys who have to get gone. These are where the attacks need to be. This is what Ukraine needs help with above all else. Push them back push them out. Vladyslav Horai a renowned opera tenor and soloist was killed during his volunteer mission in Ukraine’s frontline Sumy Oblast the Odesa National Opera mourned his loss on its Facebook on June 8. The whole world knew Vladyslavs voice but his heart belonged to Ukraine. He was not only a talent on stage he was also an example of strength dignity and kindness in life. Even in the darkest times he did not stand aside — he helped volunteered and supported. The Odesa National Opera has been orphaned” the statement reads. Colleagues and fans worldwide expressed their shock and paid tribute to his memory. It is impossible to believe. Eternal memory to one of the best opera singers in Ukraine! wrote worldfamous Ukrainian conductor Oksana Lyniv in her comments on the post. Horai had been with the Odesa Opera since 1993 received the title of Honored Artist of Ukraine in 2013 and showcased his talents in more than twenty opera roles across numerous international stages. ⚡️The group of Russian troops occupied the center of Kindrashivka village located four kilometers two miles from Kupiansk a key logistical hub in Kharkiv region said the analytical OSINT project DeepState that maintains an online war monitoring map. In the coming weeks important meetings and negotiations will take place in Ukraine and we are doing everything to ensure that the June summits—the G7 Summit in Canada and the NATO Summit in the Netherlands—are not hollow. Russia only truly understands one language — the language of force. That is precisely the language that must become the working one across all formats of international engagement in the coming months. Ukraine continues to do everything possible to secure the release of our POWs and the return of our fallen warriors. The full lists from Russia for the exchange of over one thousand people as agreed in Istanbul have still not been provided. In typical fashion the Russian side is once again trying to turn even these matters into a dirty political and information game. For our part we are doing everything we can to keep the exchange track moving forward. https//xcancel.com/ZelenskyyUa/status/1931777356987064389#m Really hope Ukraine have made Sumy a fortress after kicking Russians out the first time. This is a photo circulating online. The horrors our boys are experiencing in Russian captivity…. https//bsky.app/profile/maks23.bsky.social/post/3lr5uslhfi22g The photo shows a man with scar tissue showing his whole stomach has been cut open and crudely sewn together. A tube has been inserted into his stomach. Slava R*ssia has been carved into his skin. A record buildup of forces in half a year Russia is transferring a huge amount of equipment to expand the offensive in Sumy region Petro Andryushchenko 10 new selfpropelled guns an antiaircraft missile system 40 trucks with personnel and ammunition from Crimea and Kherson region. https//bsky.app/profile/maks23.bsky.social/post/3lr62c5llcc2z Ukrainian air defenders destroyed 479 aerial targets \ 10 Kh101 cruise missiles \ 4 Kh47 M2 Kindzhal missiles \ 2 Kh22 missiles \ 2 Kh31P antiradiation missiles \ 1 Kh35 cruise missile \ 277 Shahedtype strike drones. Another 183 UAVs failed to reach their targets Ukrainian Special Operations Forces in coordination with other Defense units struck two aircraft at the Savasleyka airbase in Russia’s Nizhny Novgorod region the General Staff reports. Preliminary assessment likely damage to a MiG31 and a Su30/34. Results are being verified. Ukraine has made a lot of similar claims and they cant all be true. https//bsky.app/profile/noelreports.com/post/3lr5tr5wry22a Mildly interesting the news on that crash that seems to be russian government created. In short a bridge went down over some train tracks and despite all sorts of news about this going out somehow nobody thought that they should engage in a dozen different methods of closing the tracks to stop the oncoming train which promptly arrived...thirty minutes after the bridge went down. The best case for russia there is functionally admitting that in a populated area their disaster response is so garbage it can be RELIED upon to be unable to handle even basic response in a timely manner since their spindoctor approach is to declare that Ukraine dropped the bridge on purpose knowing the train would hit it. Fuck putin Russian losses 09/06/2025 reported by the Ukrainian General Staff 970 KWIA 4 Tanks 11 APVs 42 Artillery systems 1 MLRS 167 UAVs 123 Vehicles &amp Fuel tanks Slava Ukraini ! Слава Україні! Post 63 Ukraine and Russia complete another POW swap — Details photos and video Author ThickLocksmith7330No comments found==================== Post 64 Satellite images show damaged North Korean warship moved to drydock near Russian border CNN Author Gyro_Armadillo Hope it turns completely over next time. becoming submarine soon The DPRK would be a lot better off if they put this investment into mechanized farm equipment. But no a small warship that can be taken out by a single makeshift seababy drone or a slipway is what they put their resources into. Probably using spare parts from the Moskva to repair it. LEGO should issue a model of this ship lying on its side next to the dock. Dear Leader could get his own minifigure. The article says the ship wasnt even named. Whats the bet it was North Korean for Titanic? Looks like a banana And of course no one care much for the unfortunate people arrested for bungling the launch. Since N Korea sent troops to Ukraine it should be a Ukrainian target. Got any more of those spiders lying in wait Ukraine? Is this part of the deal they made? NK sends troops and I assume something else and in exchange NK gets to use a Russian drydock to repair their damaged ship. Post 65 Ukraine and Russia conduct first exchange of prisoners as part of Istanbul agreements Author murphystrugglesNo comments found==================== Post 66 Pope Leo criticises ‘exclusionary mindset’ of nationalist political movements Author BreakfastTop6899 Catholic leader preaches Catholic doctrine more at 11 He is talking to you TACO. Love each other! Religious people No! You reddit dorks have to see the bigger picture. Even though the Catholic church isnt morally perfect the criticism it delivers is still very useful for undermining the religious arguments of extremist groups. All the Republicans are bitching about the woke pope but like this is what they have always done. sure its not what you would call progressive though the last one was pretty decent but its just like base level humanity. The church hasnt gotten more woke if anything the church is getting worse like it always has. The Republican party has now dropped below the Catholic Church and I dont just mean in scandals and terrible behavior they cross that bar a long time ago so not the churches actions but even its words now. Church still pretends to be nice and caring and thats something the Republican party is demonizing so they can be allowed to ignore it and act the opposite. [removed] Breaking news regards cant fathom why a Christian figure says worldly attachments bad. Im sure Jesus would be a flag waving patriot if he were alive today. On both a moral and practical level helping our human brothers and sisters abroad to survive and to live with dignity is the right thing to do. We can argue about specific border policy details all day and night but at the end of the day we need to ensure that civilians get the help they need somewhere be it inside or outside of our borders. Preferably they’ll get the help they need as close to home as possible so they don’t have to travel across half the world. It’ both inhumane and inefficient. The thing I can’t stand aboutmodern politics is that it usually boils down ro pro or anti foreigner legislation. The left typically wants more open borders as well as hefty foreign aid programs while the right wants to cut down on both. We can argue about the naivety of the left all day but at least they’ve got humanity. Can’t these so called ”Christian” nationalists prioritize humanity and give all these refugees a good alternative to crossing our borders? Now I’m not saying that there aren’t such proposals and opinions floating around the far right in Europe at least but I typically don’t trust their voting records to align with humanitarian values outside our borders unless they cn score political points in the media from it. Far right populists are the most cynical machiavellians in our political systems in spite of their supposed ”outsider” status. Two calm patient and rational Popes in a row? Good man. Man this is how I like my popes. Last one was cool too. If only their followers weren’t set on living their lives like the antiChrist. Ooooo I love him. What a big political move by the Vatican to elect him. The Popes have always opposed nationalism. Plus IX had a big problem with Itallian nationalism for obvious reasons.. I like Leo even though Im a fan of nationalism. I like your Christian God. I dont like your Christians which are so unlike your Christian God. One of the best popes ever lol the Catholic Church preaching against an exclusionary mindset is rich as fuck. Tell me again your stance on women roles within the church or your stance on LGBTQ+ I think religion means love each other and love yourselve. And what my mom told me Do not do shit to others that you dont want want they to do to you. Yet the religion by its very nature is exclusionary. As much a ‘exclusionary mindset’ as the catholic church excluding gays and lesbians? American Pope has to do more to end American Cope. Criticizing others for being exclusionary while preaching our way or hellfire for eternity is a choice. Preach! You first Vatican City Remind me does the Catholic Church discriminate against non Catholics? Does he want the nationalists to unite? I think thats what Orban is trying. Can women be priests or are they excluded? Can the LGBT marry who they want or are they excluded? I agree with the sentiment just here to also point out the hypocrisy. The Catholic Church is one of the wealthiest organizations in the world and they do comparatively little to actual help the poor aside from baptize them. News article As little as 10% of donations by Roman Catholics that are specifically advertised as helping the poor and suffering actually go toward charitable work a new report says. I criticise the Catholic church for covering up sex crimes against children. The world needs more open borders. Post 67 Israel says it has found body of Hamas military leader Mohammed Sinwar Author KandisKoolAidWeave The original title was Israel says it has found body of Hamas military leader Mohammed Sinwar The current title is Israel says Hamas Gaza chief Sinwars body identified The title on the site is subject to change as new information develops. *Last updated 2318 UTC* Nicely done. Making the world safer one Hamas scumbag dead at a time. Oh and look where he was under the hospital they got the world to try and keep them from looking in. It’s wild how Hamas is able to manipulate people so easily. ...under the European hospital. Which means that hospital did not deserve Geneva Convention protection. So kids what did you learn from this? When you have a medical emergency walk in to a hospital not under it. Dude named like the bad guy in an oldtimey movie Oh noes….anyway what’s everyone having for dinner? Aaaaaand another one down and another one down another one bites the dust yeah! Geez how many clones did they make Wholl be the new leader now? Happy news keep Coming Again? Likely died months ago they first needed to sift through the tens of thousands of dead Gazans bodies to find his. Wow the comments are kinda based today are the triple H supporters just out in LA setting fire to cars and businesses? again? [deleted] So now they can stop murdering civilians? Or are there alternative motives for their military operations? Great so they can pull out of gaza now..right?! Maybe someone should put a big sign up that reads MISSION ACCOMPLISHED and then all the troops can be pulled out because you did the thing you wanted to do?! Right?! Edit /s...im making a parallel to the american/Iraq war where despite declarations of victory war crimes continued to be committed in the name of freedom or whatever Edit 2 how many Gazan civilians are worth 1 hostage? News going to report Israel found the body of a Palestinian child and make Israel look like theyre the bad guy. If they didn’t find the body today’s news would be all about how the immoral Israelis done bombed another hospital and starved orphans. Don’t believe a word they say. Post 68 Putin Approves Russia’s First LongTerm Naval Strategy Through 2050 Author Logical_Welder3467 step 1 dig up sunken Black Sea fleet I hear North Korea has a supercheap destroyer available for possible sale I would suggest that a realistic strategic aim would be not to lose too badly. Has the Russian/Soviet Navies won a victory of any significant since the Battle of Chesma in 1770? Another realistic strategic aim would be to have a majority of their fleet seaworthy at any given time though that might be a bit too big an ask. Russia technically has the worlds third largest navy by ship tonnage twice the uk but is massively held back by 1. Geography. It’s 2 million tons of navy are divided between 4 fleets in different points where Russia accesses the sea with no easy way to reinforce one another. This means it faces a stronger opponent vs every fleet in every location. There is no solution for this as it is geographical. 2. Corruption and funding. Especially with the war in Ukraine now Russia’s navy is very much not the priority so it’s very hazy on how much of that 2 million fleet is even seaworthy. Assuming Russia wont collapse before 2050 is quite risky Russia wont exist in 2050... Russian strategy Till 2030 Ukraine destroyed half naval forces 2040 the rest we try to rebuild and 2050 we call it a quit!” Gotta keep busy and distracted from the fact the 3 day war is going a little longer than planned. What a joke. Russian navy is falling apart for lack of maintenance modernization and corruption. Example How long has Russias only aircraft carrier has been in dry dock? \#1. Try to avoid our ships being sunk by country with no navy. \#2. Build ships in less than 10 yr timeframe. And all parts work. \#3. No more fake aircraft carriers. And No aircraft carriers! First step in new strategy is to reregister a third of their fleet as submarines. Russia must doing REALLY REALLY WELL financially ! Everything gets promotion to submarine. *Autozone register* Yeah lemme get the Mercedes.” FIRST! We need a Navy Adm. Conscriptovich Don’t Be Sunk You could put it on a hoodie and Melania Trump could be the spokesperson for their future policy. Does it start with finally turning that wreck of an aircraft carrier into a reef? Thats about all its good for. Policy #1 boats that float. Dumb question was it ever a major naval power though? Russia’s first longterm naval strategy since Tsushima or Tsushima 2.0 in the Black Sea? Pootin will be long dead before this date not even mention the state of russian economy dont know why he even bothers to choose such a long term could also put 2100 Wont you ever learn Vova? Your ships sink faster than you can build them. Post 69 Russia Says New Prisoner Exchange With Ukraine Has Started Author Artak_journalistNo comments found==================== Post 70 Thousands rally against police violence in Lausanne Author BezugssystemCH1903No comments found==================== Post 71 Ukraine drones attack on Moscow forces airport closure Russia says Author drjjoyner Invading another country has a price uh? You can stop all this in a second by stopping the invasion you know. Your move. They should make millions of ultra cheap drones. Not explosive kind. Just enough to cause panic. Then send them all over Moscow Russia can stop this at any time by pulling its troops out of Ukraine 🇺🇦 Oh nooo... Anyway. Slava Ukraini! Send a big one to Putin! No doubt those drones were on their way to strike a military target thatll soon be reported on More of this please. Glory to Ukraine fuck ruzzia They should call it a defense instead. Ukraine wouldn’t HAVE to defend itself against Russia if Russia didn’t attack first. Hitting home where it hurts the worse! Next is Red Square! do it again Dont like it.. then get the fuck out of the Ukraine. Very simple. Drone is now the fabled stone that took down Goliath. Excellent! You Putin have done worse shits to Ukraine than what Ukraine is doing to Moscow. P Lol the article says they are back to peace talks like Russia doesnt want part of Ukraine. get the hell out of Ukraine and start acting like decent human beings 9/11 was a response to USA invasions into the Middle East Ukraine join NATO and the European Union IMMEDIATELY. Russia immediately and completely withdraw from Ukraine. Russia pay Ukraine for all the damage they have inflicted. Russia returns all Ukraine prisoners dead or alive. Russia NEVER EVER EVER steps foot in Ukraine. Good. Pummel the shit out of Putins defense. Good.More needed. Nice! Slava Ukraini! Heroyam Slava! Well done Good Guys! Sweet. I thought we would get Peace Post 72 Conference to recognise Palestinian state to weaken scope of its ambition diplomats say Author F0urLeafCl0ver Imagine if theyd accepted the two state policy what 50 years ago? But then we could also imagine if they didnt hate Jews and thats just going into fantasy land Yes there are conditions. There has always been conditions. Palestine has been an exception on this. As long as hamas is there palatinians are screwed . Also Netanyahu really wants 100% erasure of Palestine...theres really no middle ground here My goodness imagine if the EU acting anything that looked like it was serious about a peace deal. Instead it allows Israel and the US to do the dirty work while it wrings its hands and allows Hamas to reach in its back pocket. [deleted] Post 73 Bulgaria Nears Inclusion in US Visa Waiver Program Says Interior Minister Author rintzscar Guess they offered up enough capital for the administration to greenlight it. US visa requirements Be the Post 74 Putin Warned of Dual Threat to Russian Economy Countdown to a Crisis Author Body_Languagee Users often report submissions from this site for sensationalized articles. Readers have a responsibility to be skeptical check sources and comment on any flaws. You can help improve this thread by linking to media that verifies or questions this articles claims. Your link could help readers better understand this issue. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* If you read Russian commentary about things going on in their country theyre mad about high prices shortages shitty working conditions poor wages environmental problems poor housing poor/lacking government services lawlessness and uncertainty about the future. If there arent enough qualified people in their area they assume its because they all went to another oblast where the pay is higher not because those people dont exist anymore. If products arent available in their area its because some unscrupulous corporation is sending it all somewhere they can get a higher profit not because the capacity raw materials and workforce arent available anymore or because of the sanctions. They blame poor managers lazy coworkers immigrants criminals NATO the US the authorities and sometimes even specific people in local government. Needless to say they never blame the federal government or Putin. Sounds like a day for celebration To the litany of problems facing the Russian economy to at least some degree the forced conscription of ablebodied males is worsening conditions. The high payments to them or their relatives when they die fuels inflation. Finally it could be that hundreds of thousands of maimed and wounded and traumatized soldiers Are further burdening society. Time to cut military offense spending. Hopefully a very short countdown…👌 Wait until Russia has to pay back Ukraine for the damages. I pray his people take him down before he gets any more desperate. Maybe he should stop wasting valuable resources on war. Don’t worry Trump will take him and his cronies into the US as economic refugees. Wonderful news. The clock is ticking against Russian economy. I hope Ukraine can hold on until Russia implode economically. All he has to do is to stop the war. Its literally in his power. Yeah those treats are called Putin. End them all take their land AND GO THERE ON VACATION. Cant wait! Your lives and livelihoods are a sacrifice im willing to make ~Putin I cant wait! This is self induced and welldeserved punishment. May God bless him with this and more. HOPEFULLY the awakening of the Russian people. PLEASE! The people dont deserve to suffer for Punys mistakes. That goes for you too Cheetoh! I have a simple solution for him that can fix it in 24 hours STOP THE FUCKING WAR OR DIE” either will work Trump his buddy is there for him haha Is there somewhere I can watch this countdown live? Want to make sure I have the drinks and snacks ready for when the ball drops and Russia completely collapses And if the USA was still great we would be in there being evil taking advantage of their weakness and absolutely turning them into a puppet for us to play with forever more. But instead we are rotten full of MAGATs missing the opportunity. Does anyone really believe their reported economic indicators have any basis in reality??? Mr Putin our economy is in the shitter. Okay keep spending more on this unnecessary war thats getting us nowhere and is a money pit. Crossing fingers and toes for an absolute colapse of the russian federation 🤞 I hope I get to see the fall of Putin and Kremlin in my life time. Most of the problems can be solved simply by leaving Ukraine. The US could deal a death blow right now to the russian economy by immediately enacting maximum sanctions. Trump wont do that because his Daddy Putin has dirt on him so Trump puts on his dress and his makeup and sits quietly on his daddys lap like a good little taco. How are they not already in recession ?? That’s mind blowing. Australia is currently in a recession for fuck sakes with rich resources and stable government. Makes me think they can sustain this war for a very long time. Low oil prices rock! Love it! Still going this asshole Taco to the rescue Boy I feel terrible now Anyway does anyone have a good medium heat salsa recipe? Any day now. Fortunately they have a guy in the White House who is happy to help his big friend Vladimir We k m ypjik yhujjjjl They can always stop the war and go back to pre2014 borders and take care of it. In this case its unlucky they are so stupid to not understand that. Putin warned of a dual threat sanctions from the West and babushkas hoarding all the sugar again. The Kremlin called it a countdown to crisis” but economists just called it Tuesday in Russia. Ah the Russian economic crisis that now has been promised for two years… Yeah yeah for five years the experts assure Russia goes bankrupt in a few months. Its hilarious how full of bullshit they are. I hate Newsweek. I wish there was a filter I could use to block posts from them. What the difference if USA and Trump in particular are gonna save russia again as they always did before I’ve been reading about their economic collapse for years…. Not gonna happen so stop with the misinformation… Post 75 Iran carried out implosion tests for nuclear weapons development IAEA reports Author Far_Broccoli_8468 Read the article. **The implosion tests occurred in 2003.** Over 20 years ago. What kind of bait and switch headline is this JP? That was news……over 20 years ago. Stop agitating. This article says nothing except that Iran used to do implosion tests. Of course they could theoretically continue where they left off!That’s not news. That’s just how things actually work. If Iran were conducting implosion tests today that would be news worthy. Stop trying to frighten people. Just more propaganda design to kick up tensions. This is from more than 20 years back in Bushs era. Irrelevant now. The recent special International Atomic Energy Agency IAEA report on Iranian nuclear violations added many points one being that Iran carried out multiple implosion tests a key military skill necessary for developing the atomic bomb. Iran tested a sophisticated 2030KT implosion design 22 years ago. Then they leaked the results of these tests to Israel and the US in the AMAD heist. Literally they put a bunch of docs and cds showcasing test results of a nuclear weapons program but omitted key actionable information into an unguarded warehouse and rang the dinner bell. The result for the last 22 years the US has been paralyzed to strike to Iran. We literally stopped even wargaming a conflict with Iran after the leaks. Israel thought this treasure trove of data would prod us into attacking Iran the exact opposite it sobered the heck out of us. Every US presidential candidate talks big and loud about hitting Iran as soon as they get that first briefing we never hear about anything except peace deals. The latest Grossi 22 years belated revelation is just to appease the UK France and Germany which feel butthurt that Trump cut them out of the new deal with Iran. They want to show they are relevant and have a part to play in global affairs. I dont think Trump cares about any of this signaling hell continue to just do him. I just dont get what IKEA has to do with that. Everyone should remember who say by and let this happen. Its worth mentioning that implosion tests are not carried out with actual weapons grade uranium or plutonium if they were thats just a full test of a nuclear device lol theyre just cold tests carried out using a a substitute such as other isotopes of uranium/plutonium. Theyre just another step in designing a nuclear weapon and doesnt indicate that Iran has any functional nuclear weapons by itself. Given that Irans constantly been trying to inch closer to having functional nukes this is hardly a surprise. you know theres a surefire means to make sure Iran never gets a nuclear weapon. No negotiating required. The enrichment facility locations are well known. Everyone knows what the solution is. But no one is doing it. So... eventually Iran develops a nuclear weapon. And then the world acts surprised. I almost dont even care anymore. EVERY country has the right to develop nuclear weapons including Iran... until there is a global pact and EVERY country destroys its nuclear stockpile. You can but I cant? Says who and by what authority? Post 76 Finnish PM criticizes reported attempts by Trump to weaken Russia sanctions bill Author AdSpecialist6598 Proving once again that Trump favors Russia over the US. Trump is a russian asset I dont understand how the Republicans can be allowing one man to overrule 82 senators. Preventing one person from having all power is the reason Congress exists. This bill needs to be approved now. 🫲Agent Krasnov🫱 As we all should. I know it concerns me as a Canadian knowing your neighbour has become nothing more than a vassal state of Putin and Russia. Theyll be guided by me. Thats how its supposed to be Trump said. Theyre waiting for me to decide on what to do. No. Thats exactly how it isnt supposed to be. TACO Mania America is crumbing and failing as their population voted for and wants. Those libs got owned though! Fucking owned! Next step destroy Cali the largest economy in the whole United” States. Where is the party of Reagan? Or was it all an act to begin with? Krasnov has his orders. I cant believe Orpo said something intelligent and not full of lies. Will Putin ever understand the opportunities he has squandered by refusing to come to the table? I dont think there will ever be such a proRussia POTUS again. Agent Krasnov doing Krasnov things. Did France even say Thank You? The stupid fat fucking piece of shit is putting his all into helping Ukriane. He doesnt even have to do this. Hes the man who wrote a book 40yrs ago about making deals. It would do France well to recognize the stupid fat fucking piece of shits tweets as the ultimate sacrifice. sometimes i feel that the Finns are the Numenoreans among the peoples of the West. the dumbest of them seems to be wiser than most of the rest Rare Orpo W but even a broken clock.. Trump is a Russian asset. Trumps not smart enough to realize that when the trees start whispering in Finnish bad things are coming... America first ... and it used to be ... allies second ...now it seems to be Putin first.... America second and allies gfys.... Maybe taking him golfing a couple more times will help.......... Thugs.. Having followed him in geopolitics prior to presidency Stubb is important and brilliant and punches above his weight in Europe despite being from a smaller nation. Stubb is gamely trying to have the interests of Europe clearly aligned with normal America. Which they are but this cannot be seen by fascist America. His approach of flattery and support towards Trump is the best available. However the transactional Trump is not just there for the praise or even the support. Trump will never really be friendly with any nation/faction that cannot bribe him due to rule of law limits or that doesn’t host substantial Trump family business and again most likely past the point of arms length as with the Saudis. Trump is visibly bigly compromised financially no matter if the rubes refuse see it. Trump’s trademark mismanagement and historic high debt to asset ratios ultimately led to falsifying business records in that oh so felony wayyyyy. So Stubb did his absolute best in an impossible mission but perhaps one that had to be tried. Didnt the Finnish PM used to be like way hotter and more female? Had to log in for the first time in months to tell yall how stupid you are. If we follow this bill we will be tariffing China India Turkey and some EU countries 500 percent!!!! Jesus Christ read past the headline you dolts. Not very intelligent According to January 2025 data China accounts for around 47% of Russia’s crude oil exports. India follows with about 37%. The EU collectively makes up about 6% and Turkey another 6% Post 77 Carney to unveil defence security priorities Monday as Canada under pressure to boost military spending Author Georgeika I hope its not the golden dome. I initially though the idea was pitch to him by someone competent but everything I am reading about it is not good news. Also fuck Trump after that shitshow with NG. For what? to flex on your own citizens? Why would we trust him? You can have all the cards you want but we get to see how you play them. No one wants a partnership with NK 0.5 beta release. Post 78 Carney lays out Canadas G7 summit priorities while managing a complicated guest list Author Majano57 Please serve tacos please serve tacos please serve tacos… Finally Carney said Canada will push to secure new partnerships that will catalyze enormous private investment to build stronger infrastructure create higherpaying jobs and open dynamic markets where businesses can compete and succeed. I really hope this works out. So much talent in Canada that is just wasted or underpaid/underemployed. Mr Carney will handle it very well. He has a calm and measured approach It will be very interesting to see how Canadian PM and Modi will navigate this situation considering the turmoil between two governments. And how Canadian will react once Modi lands there. Keep the fascist out. Khalistanis are not activists they are terrorists who fight/terrorize to carve out a separate a state Punjab from India. carney decided to get on his knees for the Indian pm hes a coward elbows up till its difficult i guess... [removed] What a great con job this guy did writing a book convincing people he cares about human rights. Everything is about the economy. Post 79 Ukraine denies Russian troop presence in Dnipropetrovsk Oblast amid offensive describes situation as tense Author jackytheblade Sad but this is just a matter of time. They may be not there right now but they will be there in days if nothing changes. And nothing seems to change. The world makes headlines mocking Russia and its ineptness maybe justified at times but the front line grinds backwards daily. Slowly and costly but it grinds on. The motorcycle brigades have taken over the human wave tactics Post 80 India launches prefeasibility study to divert Chenab water currently flowing in Pakistan Author DowntownTeach8367 Users often report submissions from this site for sensationalized articles. Readers have a responsibility to be skeptical check sources and comment on any flaws. You can help improve this thread by linking to media that verifies or questions this articles claims. Your link could help readers better understand this issue. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* It seems indian govt is also working with Afghanistan to build dams on Kabul river and all to choke Pakistani water from west side. And I marvel at Pakistani mentality that India will leave untouched Indus Water Treaty after their latest poke to India. India can be real mean if it really want to. The result of a war is measured by net tangible outcome not by loss of tanks or jets. Indus water treaty was suspended a few days before the war broke out. Pakistan declared decisive victory in the war. But the IWT is still suspended and Pakistan has failed to force India to reinstate it. I dont understand the mental gymnastics of Pakistan here. Indias financial loss was definitely more in the war. But 200 million rafale is worth pennies compared to what India has to spend in water security. They attack us scream all over X that they won the war. Pakistan has send 4 pleads to India till now asking them to rethink about Indus water treaty. While saying on X that India has no humanity they are blocking water. You carry terror attacks on us and we give you water 😭 India is looking for a renegotiation of the Indus Water Treaty here. It has been doing so since 2023 check the wiki Renegotiation Demands section for IWT. i don’t know shit about this situation is anyone here kind enough to give me some bullet points Im not aware of the full context so can someone explain why it looks like india is giving a casus belli to pakistan? Two nuclear powers antagonizing each other and fighting over vital natural resources. What could go wrong? Maybe they could flush the Ganges [deleted] Those that don’t know China is building a dam that can do pretty much the same outcome as this study to divert water and a lot of it away from India. If India does it to Pakistan there is an insanely high chance China will gain the justification to divert water from India. Any attempt to divert water into Pakistan would result in shooting their own foot because Water is necessary for human survival. This is why I am saying India should not be even attempting this. Im afraid when it comes to water it will cause war. I didnt really understand what India expects to gain from this. India stop being stupid if you do this then China will 100% control your water supply since you yourself said it is ok to do it vindictive [deleted] And India is crying that China Might block their water. Lol. Post 81 US and China set to kick off fresh round of trade talks in London over intractable issues Author perplexedredditor Xis choice of gameplan A. Since he was already given a luxury jet give Trump a megayacht. B. Do nothing and let Trumps own policies fall apart through the courts TACO effect and international alienation. Plan B is free. Trump just needs to declare victory and move on. He can say he helped out America and saved it with absolutely no proof and much of his base will eat it up. I thought the American negotiator said there would be a deal today Monday? So once they strike a deal which on of these two will break the deal first? Xi is a very lucky than his adversaries are complete morons. Post 82 Swiss government forbids use of donkeys to protect against wolf attacks Author BezugssystemCH1903 In addition to this legal basis the OSAV has identified several practical obstacles. Donkeys which come from arid areas do not cope well with the humidity of Jura pastures. They also need very specific feed that is difficult to provide at altitude as well as a daily supply of fresh drinking water. I can understand not forcing animals to work in conditions they don’t thrive in… In the government’s view it has not been scientifically proven that donkeys are a real bulwark against predators. … but this is horseshit. Donkeys will stomp a canine until it’s unrecognizable. Domestic or wild. The article said the donkeys only protect the flock when they are alone??? My friends use donkeys to protect their cattle ColoradoUS. The donkeys are doing a good job the only issue is that they need to be integrated with cattle herd at a young age so they bond with the cows. It took a generation or two before showing any effect. There are certainly multiple donkeys present. Donkeys will fuck a wolf up. Best guard dogs in the world. This is wild Its not just about herd protection though the donkeys also carry baskets of lambs that are too young to keep up when moving the herd! why did the swiss people elect wolves for their government Just use mules Try llamas. Donkeys dont do well where there is too much rich fodder. They are evolved for semi desert foraging. The donkey refuge turns them out on pasture in the morning then moves them into a dirt paddock for the rest of the day. Otherwise their hooves delaminate along with other health problems. Im just taking a educated guess farmers get reimbursed for animals killed by wolves when there were adequate measures for protection. So in that sense they now excluded donkeys. Apparently from a short google search donkeys are good guardians but more so for slightly smaller predators eg coyotes and less for bigger wolves bears ones especially when hunting in packs. Its not forbidden to have a donkey in switzerland and you can also keep them with other animals in a herd. But you cannot file it as official proctective measure against wolve attacks. Btw just 2 months ago 2 donkey foals were taken by a wolf in Switzerland... They want farmers to have guard dogs and electric fencing over night as it seems to show the best results. Wait. They’re arguing that they can’t do that as you have to have at least two donkeys you can’t have just one. Companionship law. ….and the reason a herder cannot keep two donkeys amongst the herd is….? That they only act like protectors when they’re alone? Uhhhhhh noooooo? My grandparents had donkeys. They choose violence towards anything canineshaped it’s crazy. Can you not have more than one donkey protecting the herd? Im guessing theres a reason why not because that seems like an easy fix and on the face of it sounds like double the protection The Swiss lawmakers are arguing that is should be Shrek who protects against wolf attacks instead of Donkey Ohh I did not know about them being sheperds!\`that is interesting. I also knew that donkeys are also used to clean the woods eating the lower pastures so it doesnt burn in summer time. Pretty interesting animals. My mother had some when growing up and always says good things about donkeys. If you wanna stop a wolf you gotta get off your ass. Donkeys do well keeping the coyotes away in south I have five. I call them the 5 deadly venoms. Ok they are no longer being kept for wolves they are simply loved pets that enjoy walking with the rest of the livestock. switzerland is like tax evasion yes donkeys no sounds like the gov’t should try staying *Neutral* here 🇨🇭 This reminds me of that one guy that kept saying that crate training was illegal in his country. My dudes its a fucking donkey. They only exist to be field bouncers. Calm down. World order cant have us be able to feed ourselves At no point in reading that title did I know what the next word was gunna be. Donkeys will fuck shit up Well I guess well just have to use the ogre instead then. Now the wolves are going to start using hollowpoints this is an arms race that everyone loses. Were from the government and were here to help... Are wolves an issue in Switzerland? Plenty of dog out there who are up for the job. The DEI hires are taking away jobs from perfectly qualified Reindeers born and raised in Sweden. They did the same thing in USA regarding the elephant in the room Title is completely incorrect. Switzerland bans ass Why would the government be involved in arguing about donkey v. wolf fight odds? How is that an issue worthy of their attention or money? The economy public safety international relations these are your focus. Determining which variety of hay grows better in their area or whether sheep dogs or donkeys are more effective flock guardians on their farm is something farmers can handle without any government spending. Post 83 Rwanda quits Central African bloc in dispute with Congo Author jupa300 [removed] Post 84 Iran obtains ‘vast quantity’ of secret Israeli military plans Author TheTelegraph Users often report submissions from this site for sensationalized articles. Readers have a responsibility to be skeptical check sources and comment on any flaws. You can help improve this thread by linking to media that verifies or questions this articles claims. Your link could help readers better understand this issue. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* These are the same guys who claimed to have built a quantum computer which turned out to be a . Coming soon! Those plans then exploded eliminating most of Iran’s top intelligence officers. Secret Israeli plans as told by Iran They want to poison our water supply burn our crops and deliver a plague unto our houses! World They do? Iran No but are we just going to wait around until they do?! Does it matter if they have secret plans or not? It seems like they are incapable of stopping whatever they are doing. The byline itself is hilarious Report by state broadcaster claims nuclear and defense documents were secured in mission a while ago. You cant call them though they dont have a phone. Were they on a WhatsApp chat room ? asking for a friend Hegseth put down the bags the bottles and stop touching Israel’s war plans. The headline is misleading. Irans state TV says this happened but there is no proof. IDF chow hall menu and recipes. Sounds like Trojan $20 says it’s just disinformation mossad dropped in their laps. I wonder what Pete Hegseth named that Signal group chat? [deleted] If them Iranians keep it up beat em til the white skin shows is hardly a secret military plan. Rural Missouri junior college obtains entire playbook of the Los Angles Lakers. They should chuck them all on 4chan for a laugh Why is doge working for Israel now? Yeah the same ones that were in a bunch of boxes in a bathroom in Florida. Post 85 Russia claims to have pushed into central Ukrainian region for first time Author BreakfastTop6899 Its been clear from the start that Russia wants it all. That any peace negotiation would just buy time for Russia to regroup and take more later. Ok. They already were in Kyiv 1 million casualties ago. It does seem true based on Ukrainian maps Theyve been slowly making pushes and progress at a faster rate the last month or two compared to the previous few months of 2025 Mostly in the east and north near Sumy Lyman Konstantynivka Pokrovsk Etc The interesting thing is this is the first time theyre claiming an offensive that takes Ukrainian ground that even they admitted is not part of the 5 Oblasts they deem to be theirs So theyre going against their own word by making this statement Just an interesting thought Maybe they figure an offensive that can push even a little into that central area which is a lot less defended can pressure Ukraine to take a deal that is unfair that they previously rejected rightfully so Russia claims alot of things well see it this is real or not soon This is what trump wants. At the end of the day trump would love to see Ukraine taken over so he can claim the war is over thanks to him. History will speak on the courage of Ukraine versus the weakness of the US and its sitting president. How the supposed greatest country in the world has a president who bends the knee to the likes of putin. They are moving towards the river. Nobody expected Dnipropetrovsk would come into play so soon. This is bad i guess everyone was thinking who is following the war that they will probably attack Sumy or Kharkiv because Zelensky has said Russians were planning an attack. I doubt anyone was expecting it to be Dnipopetrovsk until and unless this is a negotiating tactic. Listen to what russians said is an act of self disrespect Been reading about Napoleon’s wars lately. Seems like Russia never learned from its own history. Russia will implode randomly and suddenly. Even if they take ukraine the debt will be way too much. Russia claims Russia lies a lot. That is Ukraines basic strategy. Slowly lose land in exchange of countless Russian losses. So long as its on ukrainian terms they can push all the way to Kiev and still lose. Now ask them what it cost them to get this far Edit. To the less mentally inclined. This is not to say that it is good for Ukraine a risk free strategy possible or ideal. Just that territory loss is not world ending if you get something valuable in return. In this case enemy losses and time to plan worthwhile strategies. Like operation spiderweb. For those of the Russian persuasión lols. Dont be mad. You earned it. Your great leaders strategy is to drown Ukraine in Russian blood. You have no one to blame but yourselfs. Small territorial gains at the expense of demographics and loss of strategic warfighting assets. They’re handing asia to the Chinese/Indians and weakening their european posture The land given up is concerning but it’s potentially less concerning if Ukraine is inflicting high damages per sq. Km. Post 86 Argentina Supreme Court revising Cristina Fernández de Kirchner’s corruption conviction Author Affectionate_Way622 For all nonArgentineans dont worry about this. Shes never ever going to set a foot in jail. We had a president that blew up a city to cover weapons contraband and even he died happy as a member of congress without spending 1 day detained... For americans she going to jail has pretty much the same chances that Trump going to jail. Just not going to happen these people have a parallel justice system that works only for them. Everyone who is not a Peronista knows shes guilty edit also several Peronistas know and have admited they know she is guilty they just dont care cuz she is the Messiah in their eyes and she did good things . Her Patrimony grew per year since she came into power. Those old enough know how her family made a fortune using the law known as Circular 1050 and forcing old people to sell their rural lands. When in Harvard and asked how she made so much money she answered that she was a successful lawyer despite that by law she couldnt even exercise her profession while in public office let alone the fact that she barely if ever won a case before coming into public office . Now here is the thing this is Argentina shes not gonna go in prison if she does its gonna be house arrest which she will not obey and no one will enforce and then next time some of her political allies get into power shes gonna be pardoned just like it happened to Menem Another Peronista who went to prison for illegally selling weapons to other countries while being President . Argentina’s Supreme Court is reviewing former president Cristina Fernández de Kirchner’s conviction in the socalled ‘Vialidad’ corruption trial with a decisive ruling that could define the opposition leader’s political future drawing near. Fernández de Kirchner 72 has begun campaigning ahead of the September elections in Buenos Aires Province. She is seeking to stand as a candidate for the provincial legislature though the Supreme Court’s decision will determine whether she is eligible to run. According to judicial sources quoted by the Noticias Argentinas news agency on Saturday the country’s highest tribunal has begun reviewing the case files involving Fernández de Kirchner who was convicted in 2022 of fraudulent administration to the detriment of the public administration. She was sentenced to six years in prison and handed a lifetime ban from holding public office. Prosecutors have since requested that the prison term be increased to 12 years. The veteran politician who led Argentina from 2007 to 2015 denies the allegations which centre on irregularities in the awarding of public works contracts during her presidency. Prosecutors have also asked the Supreme Court to overturn her earlier acquittal on the charge of unlawful association” and to convict her on that count as well. There is no set deadline for a ruling. The original verdict was issued by Federal Oral Tribunal No. 2 and later upheld by the Federal Chamber of Cassation. Fernández de Kirchner appealed to the Supreme Court on March 31 and is now awaiting its decision. On Wednesday Supreme Court justices rejected a motion from her legal team to recuse Justice Ricardo Lorenzetti from the case. Her lawyers argued that he lacked impartiality citing past public statements and his involvement in earlier rulings. However the justices found that the challenge was filed out of time and lacked sufficient legal basis. Following that decision the court – led by Chief Justice Horacio Rosatti – is now in a position to issue a final ruling on the Vialidad case which could definitively uphold the sentence against Fernández de Kirchner. If the conviction is confirmed it would have immediate consequences for her political future and the wider electoral landscape. While she would likely qualify for house arrest due to her age the lifetime ban from public office would disqualify her from the upcoming provincial vote. In May Argentina’s Senate rejected a proposed Ficha Limpia Clean Slate” bill that sought to bar candidates with corruption convictions from standing for office. A Supreme Court ruling confirming her sentence would however remove her from the race and reshape the Peronist opposition ahead of both provincial and national elections. In a television interview last Monday Fernández de Kirchner confirmed her intention to run in the province’s Third Electoral Section – a Peronist stronghold that has traditionally backed her and the broader movement. Post 87 Global Funds Bet on Korean Stocks’ Big Break on Reform Tailwinds Author snowfordessert interesting move Post 88 Seoul court delays President Lee Jaemyung’s election law trial amid constitutional questions Author DoremusJessup maga and Heritage are investing HEAVILY in Korea atm. Post 89 Colombian presidential candidate Miguel Uribe Turbay shot during campaign event Author BreakfastTop6899 Users often report submissions from this site for sensationalized articles. Readers have a responsibility to be skeptical check sources and comment on any flaws. You can help improve this thread by linking to media that verifies or questions this articles claims. Your link could help readers better understand this issue. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* * **Update 1037 pm EST** The senator was transferred to the Santa Fe Clinic in Bogotá and will undergo surgery. * **Update 1045 pm EST** He was transferred to the Santa Fe Foundation Clinic in Bogotá where he will undergo surgery led by Dr. Fernando Hakim head of the Neurosurgery Department. Dr. Hakim is a neurosurgeon with over 30 years of experience. His areas of expertise include brain spinal cord and spine pathologies. He is also currently the head of the neurosurgery department at the Santa Fe Foundation University Hospital in Bogotá. * **Update 1058 pm EST** María Claudia Tarazona wife of Miguel Uribe speaks out after the attack I am María Claudia Tarazona Miguels wife. Miguel is currently fighting for his life. Let us ask God to guide the hands of the doctors who are treating him. I ask everyone to join us in a chain of prayer for Miguels life. I put my faith in God. * **Update 1131 pm EST** A minor of 15 years of age was arrested for the attack against Miguel Uribe he is injured and was taken to a clinic. * **Update 1136 pm EST** Miguel Uribe is undergoing a neurosurgical procedure according to the Santa Fe Foundation where he was admitted in critical condition. He is currently undergoing neurosurgical and peripheral vascular procedures. There are no further details at the moment. **1143 pm EST** Im going to bed. You can follow updates at www.eltiempo.com * **Update 724 am EST** Miguel Uribe emerges from surgery but his condition remains critical. * **Update 1152 am EST** Miguel Uribes health condition is extremely serious according to a statement from the Santa Fe Foundation. The agency revealed that the Senator is in intensive care and his prognosis is reserved. I wondered if hes related to Diana Turbay who was kidnapped by the Medellin Cartel and died during a botched rescue attempt. Shades of Luis Carlos Galan another victim of the Medellin Cartel. WARNING NSFW moderately graphic with blood and him being carried away but doesnt show the shooting itself. The article says he may have been hit in the head and judging by the use of a bandage to apply pressure to his head Id say it seems that way. I didnt see any movement edit there is video on twitter of the shooting he gets hit in the head you see his hair blow out edit2 cbs news reporting his party says he was shot in the head His grandfather was president. Looks like it could be multiple hits and for sure one in the head. Hope he survives but all the videos look bad for that outcome so I wouldnt be unsurprised if he doesnt last the night. RIP to him then. Let me guess. He is not a cartel lap dog. Theres something in the air tonight and it aint peace. The whole world is experiencing violence. Kind of crazy for a 15 year old to be involved in a political hit no? I know the gangs get them early but it kinda feels like this isnt the one you want to send the new guy on. Oh man. Shit goes deep yall. His mom was literally kidnapped by a hitman hired by Pablo Escobar. She later died during a botched rescue attempt.. Any relation to Alvaro Uribe? humans are fucking garbage. I hope he pulls through. Horrible thing. But I just want to add that there are reports just over a month ago that there were internal fights in the the Centro Democrático Uribes right wing party between other candidates and Miguel Uribe. So the friendly fire theory its not so far fetched. https//www.elespectador.com/politica/precandidatosuribistascabalvalenciaholguinyguerrasereunieronnuevamentesinmigueluribeycrecendivisiones/ He is a horrible person and has been promoting hate speech from the far right for many years. It doesnt excuse this crime against him but violence encourage more violence. So it goes What a shame cartels are allowed to operate with impunity in latam. Tho it’s even more a shame those who deny this and act like everything’s fine. Como Sheinbaum. I think they’re just as evil. And yes im rightly assuming this is cartel work kid had better aim than Crooks Once in the knee and twice in the head he dead This should be higher up on my feed Déjà vu from the Galán era He got hit dead center in the back of the head… I won’t make it Wake up! Tell us! In the ear? Huge chance that his own friends rightwing extremists are responsible for this. Post 90 US and China set to meet for trade talks in London Author JJgoodluck And Im sure Dementia Don will scuttle them with 3AM all caps tweets on xitter or his own idiot platform. I wonder how Trump will mess this up especially with his boyfriend gone... ... will he claim another Big Beautiful Trade Deal has been reached with Gina . Find out soon enough... Anyone wanna bet Donald gonna get played like a fool. Hope they think ahead and invest is a strong HVAC system for any room they expect him in. His diapers are the fullest and even if he’s not swimming in his own shit his baseline smell is still rancid. So I should check back on this post in 2 years only to find no progress has been made? I wonder if China will bring up US human rights abuses? /tongueincheek Post 91 Canada wildfires smoke turns UK skies orange Author notwritingasusual Yeah I was wondering what was going on in Germany for a few minutes the sun was like deep red Sorry about that eh! You’re Welcome for the pretty sunsets! 🍁🇨🇦🍁 The air quality in Canada right now is awful. Sorry about that. I’ve just washed the car. Is this going to deposit ash on it? Cos I’ll be quite cross. I am in the UK and it looks nothing like that just usual dark clouds / endless rain like always. Only see the sun a few days of the year if we are lucky. And yet some people will still deny climate change. Like 30 years ago I don’t recall hearing stories like this. Sure we always have forest fires but not of this magnitude. It was an incredibly red sunset tonight looked amazing to be honest. Thought the light was exceptionally orange. Stay safe Canadians. The last thing Brits need is an enhanced lack of sunshine. Sorry about that eh Sorry Canada is the second largest country in the world. And of the 1.42 million lakes around the world with a size of over 0.1 sq. km Canada is home to a whopping 62% of them. Canada indeed has more freshwater lakes than the rest of the world combined! And a vast majority of those lakes situated in Canada’s vast and uninhabited boreal forests are both unnamed and have never been visited by a human being. As the globe warms get used to Canadian wildfire smoke as a new normal. The end is near Still grey eh The vampires are coming It’s the pumpkin in chief’s preferred shade. I wonder if this has ever happened before the Americas were discovered. We need to export more anyway. Huh. Im sat in the park with my dog at 11.45pm. The moon is indeed orange.. Damn you Canada... ***Circle of life starts playing*** Happy early Canada day eh weve been puffing a bit much early this year. Don’t mind our dumpster fire… I hate how this is framed as Canada’s fault somehow. The forests burning are affected by climate change which wasn’t caused by the places the forests are in. Manitoba isn’t singlehandedly responsible for the climate change that causes fires in Manitoba. I’m angry at the system that allows this to happen in the first place and then says it’s because of arsonists or those silly Canadians” or something else. It’s the non stop march of the capitalist death machine. Post 92 Mahmoud Abbas praises Oct. 7 ahead of proPalestinian summit Author FYoCouchEddie This is why there wont be a Palestinian state anytime soon. Abbas is still a terrorist and Israel does not trust him or his organization and rightfully so. The fact that he praised Oct. 7 means that if Palestine gets independence it will use its territory in the West Bank to train terrorists and prepare an attack like Oct. 7 but this time it will be in Jerusalem and Tel Aviv which are very close to the border. [removed] So a terrorist wannabe? To chicken to do it himself uh? Got it. Is this the same ? In a fiery speech last Wednesday Palestinian Authority PA President Mahmoud Abbas lashed out at Hamas calling them sons of dogs and demanding that they release the remaining Israeli captives disarm and hand over control of Gaza to the PA.” You know the . At this rate he’ll end up like Sinwar This guy is still alive? Hamas attacked Israel on a Jewish holiday. Oct. 7th. Fuck these people. Two state solution? Not happening. His quote from the article On October 7 2023 Hamas launched a sudden attack... killed 1200 Israelis abducted 250 others and took them as hostages. This attack shook the foundations of the Israeli entity” How is that praising? It’s literally stating the facts of what happened. From this article at least I don’t see praising or encouragement to what happened there… the entire exchange since the article doesnt provide it Interviewer The events of Oct. 7 \[2023\] inflicted a disaster on the residents of the Gaza Strip because of the criminal and destructive war that Israel waged against the Gaza Strip. What is your response to the Oct. 7 attack and its consequences? Mahmoud Abbas On Oct. 7 2023 Hamas launched a sudden attack on the Israeli towns adjacent to the eastern border of the Gaza Strip and on several Israeli army posts and bases. In this attack it killed 1200 Israelis abducted 250 others and took them as hostages. This attack shook the foundations of the Israeli entity and exposed the \[false\] claims that Israel disseminated for decades according to which it has an invincible army. This is because this attack was a glaring failure of this entitys i.e. Israels components especially the army and the various security forces which on the one hand failed to discover what Hamas was planning and on the other hand failed to block the attack prevent heavy losses on the Israeli side and prevent the abduction of hostages. Israel launched an allout counterattack on the Gaza Strip in response to Hamas attack which has so far led to the reoccupation of the Gaza Strip and its near total destruction... As important as the goals that Hamas attempted to achieve through this attack may have been they are not comparable to the damages and heavy losses that the Gaza Strip its residents and the Palestinian cause have suffered... Without absolving the hated Israeli occupation of the primary responsibility for the destruction of the Gaza Strip Hamas provided this occupation i.e. Israel with the excuses to do what it did genocide and war crimes against our people. ‘On October 7 2023 Hamas launched a sudden attack... killed 1200 Israelis abducted 250 others and took them as hostages. This attack shook the foundations of the Israeli entity” Abbas stated in the interview’ Is Jpost planning on printing the part of the quote that heaps praise? None of the quotes are praising. In fact just the opposite As important as the goals that Hamas attempted to achieve through this attack may have been they are *not comparable to the damages and heavy losses that the Gaza Strip residents... have suffered”* I agree he isnt expressing sympathy for the Israelis but thats a different thing. Its also highly hedged. Goals *may* have been *attempted* to achieve Fwiw jpost is a rather biased source. I stick with times of Israel normally. [removed] [removed] Post 93 Iran says Israeli ‘treasure trove’ of secret documents to be unveiled soon Author dudeonmission Users often report submissions from this site for sensationalized articles. Readers have a responsibility to be skeptical check sources and comment on any flaws. You can help improve this thread by linking to media that verifies or questions this articles claims. Your link could help readers better understand this issue. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Watch all the stuff they got are just schematics for beepers. Is this like when anonymous says any minute now they are going to release damning information on trump or musk and then it never happens? If they have something they should just release it and quit teasing it endlessly like the next wicked movie. Pillow Guy must be advising them on strategy. Im going to release these documents just watch me. 10 years later........... I can believe that there are Israelis troubled enough by their governments direction to leak some documents but I have great difficulty believing theyd leak to Iran. Post 94 Iran extends ban on dogwalking for ‘public order safety and health’ Author TheLowBro WTF are all the people with dogs suppose to do now? It’s a extreme Muslim belief dogs are nasty beasts and cats are cool. For those unaware Islam is pretty hostile towards dogs and many branches are equally hostile towards art when it involves human and animal drawings and music which an entire subsection considers haram if instruments are involved. In the grand scheme of life it’s just a temporary trial that is supposed to be austere. It’s a shame that there is probably nothing waiting for those that partake at least in regard to what they expect. IE wasted lives. Theocracies hate anything that makes people happy. Iran is so weird This is just idiotic. And I thought when the religious nutcases in Iran cannot get more ridiculous they exceed expectation with flying colors. What is next? Murdering girls because of hair ...... oh wait .... I remember that time when other countries allowed dog walking and all hell broke loose So one of their religious leaders is scared of dogs. Cute. i watched last year a iranian movie Terrestrial Verses really good and one of the short story was about a woman that had her dog was in a police bc is prohibited and was like I cant believe that happens and now I was like its true! What would Abraham think? This is your life under Islam. Nothing about this is unique to Iran or its leadership. When the regime bans walking the dog you know its in trouble. *some officials view pet dogs as a symbol of western cultural influence.* It started tens of thousands of years ago... But puppies doe Fundamentalist Islam is just so downright.... dreary. Eh? How much intelligence do you need to come up with this. To be fair with the amount of people in cities carrying dogs with them everywhere they go I can kinda see the rationale Wackos! If this happened here to be sure our turdinchief would deploy the National Guard to shoot us. [removed] Post 95 Earth’s Atmosphere Contains More CO2 Than It Has in Millions of Years EcoWatch Author BobLawblaugh Heres a chart that shows atmospheric CO2 concentration for the last 800000 years https//www.youtube.com/watch?v=UatUDnFmNTY What I found interesting is that the concentration does change over time but that time span is extremely long. For example it went up and down between 180 and 280 ppm about 8 times which means the rate of change was exceeding slow somewhere around 1 ppm per 100+ years. Then the industrial age occurred and in the last 150 years has been increasing at 1.5 2.0 ppm ***per year***. This shows that this recent increase is far far higher than what would have occurred naturally. Humanity is definitely responsible. It translates to more than 400 million molecules of carbon dioxide for every one million of gas in Earth’s atmosphere. This is just stupid. How can you have 400 MILLION molecules in just ONE million? 400 ppm means 400 molecules not 400 MILLION molecules in one million. I guess checking numbers is too hard for some writers. Impossible. Republicans with almost 10 teeth told me it was a hoax. I think a big reason for it is Trump talking too much. Maybe we should open that hole up in the ozone again let that CO2 escape? Get an electric car. By getting one you are helping solve two major problems. You would be helping mitigate climate change and you would be helping defund Russia Iran Qatar and other tyrannical petro/gasstates that are starting wars and spreading disinformation and toxicity around the world. Electric cars are amazing. They are better than gasoline cars. I already owned two electric cars and Im never going back to gas because I consider gas cars to be inferior. Electric vehicles have a stronger motor meaning they accelerate faster require very little maintenance no oil changes and use cheaper fuel electricity is much cheaper than gas. Global dumbing. Human cognition is impaired by increased CO2. It’s not like we are already making great decision. But they will get worse. [deleted] I mean thats like an all you can eat buffet for the trees. Surely we can do even better for the environment! /s No way. Drill baby drill! Covid deniers flat Earthers and and climate change deniers of the world unite! You have nothing to fear but owning the libs with bad storms droughts rising sea levels and fires! And what about the METHANE? Isnt this true for every year since the end of the last ice age? According to my ex gf the more the better! She knows the real scientists unlike you climate nazis /s Good we don’t need those large insects anyway . /s Some conservative see it’s not a record” We dead. And with we i mean you. I am old. But CO2 has what plants crave! /S no wonder my trees are growing so fast. [deleted] More food for plants higher crop yields less starvation. Save money and donate to green energy companies Problem solved I believe humans are affecting climate change in a bad way but this is a useless title. There have been many many times the earth has had far more C02 than now as it has fluctuated over the earths history. A better title/study would be saying that there is strong evidence that the recent surge is more caused by human activity than natural fluctuations. Edit to those downvoting being antiscience is the worst position you can take. Trust the scientists they are the experts! If so who cares? Its a minuscule life giving trace gas. You imbeciles who buy into climate fear are going to be the end of civilization because this climate nonsense is agenda driven. Scientists baffled by time travelling headline https//youtu.be/bJfrKNR3K2k What % of our atmosphere is CO2? 0.04%! Anything below 0.02% and plant life starts dying. AI word salad? Its not that high these days actually. 50 million years ago for example the level of CO2 was twice as high for example. Seriously who cares. Thats a good thing. Co2 is dangerously low at 150ppm and were at 440. Enough paying attention to the climate doom people. Geez people ya think they may have a different agenda and using climate doom to achieve it? Ya think? A genuine question out of curiosity Is it not good for the plants to have more CO2 in the atmosphere? As its one of the core intake that they need to thrive. Haha Post 96 Extreme Poverty Rate Drops To 5.3% From 27.1% In India World Bank Report Author SubmissiveStory2911 Users often report submissions from this site for sensationalized articles. Readers have a responsibility to be skeptical check sources and comment on any flaws. You can help improve this thread by linking to media that verifies or questions this articles claims. Your link could help readers better understand this issue. *I am a bot and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.* Having seen what extreme poverty” looks like in India I’m happy to see it falling drastically. That’s an amazing achievement and desperately needed for many families. I don’t wish that sort of poverty on anyone. That is a huge jump from 1/4th of the country being poor to 5.3% 5% of India is still 73 million people thats more than the whole population of UK I’m from Pakistan and applaud this achievement. That is ~300million who have been lifted from poverty. Absolutely fantastic. Fantastic news! What an incredible achievement for India. There is so much despair in the world so many innocent people who suffer. Its so uplifting to see this news. I am genuinely elated to see it. Congratulations India! I’m happy for India. That’s absolutely fantastic great news Good. Nice to see india’s rise spread to everyone. Its per capita gdp needs to grow and bring all boats. This is a major win for the world as a whole. Its really kind of baffling that a news which should be taken positively is being hijacked by racists to justify their bigotry against Indian immigrants. 1. The story is about India. No clue what bringing in immigrants who were probably above the poverty line have anything to do with it? 2. Immigrants rushing in to fill up jobs in your countries signifies a more severe underlying problem. Why are companies hiring these immigrants? Do they not find similarly educated national folks? Are they cheaper? If thats the case then maybe update labor laws or hear me out a wild theory maybe make it easier for students to access higher education. Not to say that theres not a mass influx of Indian immigrants to developed countries but most of these immigrants help in furthering the economy and bolstering it. Every developed country today was made by immigrants whether it be America UK or countries within the EU most of which profited in many ways from colonial rules which need I remind India was one of the worst ones affected by. And now that they are trying everyone has to somehow enshittify every positive news that comes out of the country. Is India perfect? No. Is any country perfect? Probably not. But the fact is it is trying. It is fine to criticize any government that is what Free Speech is all about but taking a positive news and somehow spinning it into a racist prerogative that resides inside you but putting it under the guise of BuT mUh JoBs BroWn PePl WiTh AcCent TaKE is just hate speech under a different layer. And Im pretty sure hate goes against the majority of the teachings of your faith and religion that you preach as a way to excuse and put up abhorrent views. PS Before anyone comes in calling me a bhakt im not. PPS I still see a lot of bigots in the replies who have absolutely not refuted the 2nd point and jumped fences and hoops around the 1st point. If youre racist atleast be proud of the fact and declare that you are one. And for the argument that Indian/any immigrants send back money to their homes how do you think economics work? DO you think staying here and paying taxes assimilating in the corporate culture and cities here is fuck all free? You think a person making 80k/year is sending all that to their home? Their contribution to the countrys economy is much much more than the country that they are sending money to. You think people like Sundar Pichai or Satya Nadella or the infinite other Indian CEOs for example and who in some sense contributed a fuck ton to the economy just by being in the positions they are in and creating jobs and opportunities provide more to the Indian economy than the US? Bit of an exaggeration but you get the idea. If your argument is immigrants are cheap &amp qualified labor well then again point 2. Maybe update your labor laws? If the system is set up to abuse immigrants in such a way that disproportionally affects others then maybe i dont know wild idea but change the fucking system and bitch about the corporate overlords that are abusing it instead of someone who wants to live a better life. Finally more people getting out of poverty means more people emigrating thats not how it works. Believe it or not most immigrants dont want to move all over the globe to settle in another country with 0 friends family and a complete new life something which most of you narrow minded racists couldnt even dream to accomplish. For example Little Timmy was a lone child and got loads of candies. However soon Timmys mom and dad adopted little Jimmy and now Timmy doesnt like that he has to share his candywhy did Timmys mom and dad adopt? Well I dont know Timmy maybe ask your mom and dad what they felt was lacking in you that they needed to adopt. Little Jimmy wanted to get out of the foster system and wanted to get adopted especially because Timmys mom and dad promised him a better life. Now imagine a scenario when little Jimmy wasnt even in the foster system to begin with and hadnt been abandoned because his family was doing well enough. If the condition of Jimmys family improves and eventually Jimmys parents are able to provide a good life for Jimmy well then Jimmy would rather live with his own true parents rather than moving from one foster home to another alone and tired. In case that ELI5 wasnt dumb enough replace Jimmy with an immigrant and his family with his country and same with Timmy. Now is it always this case? No there are nuances of course but that nuance require as long to explain as it would to get the racist and victim ideology out of most peoples heads who keep blaming brown immigrants. [removed] [removed] Woah thats a huge increase. If thats true theres definitely some heavy lifting going on behind the scenes by somebody. Someone has so be putting in work over there. I’m so happy for them I really am this is great news That wonders of capitalism and opportunity. Great for them. The level of poverty has shrank dramatically over the last few decades as capitalism inspite of all the name calling gives people the opportunity to better their lives with minimal govt overreach. [removed] Sweet. Always good to hear. [removed] Finally some uplifting news. I am super blessed. But I still feel sad all the time due to the unbelievable amounts of corruption and greed in the world. I also feel more sad that I was born lucky and others arent as fortunate. I wish I had done more so I could have made a bigger difference. I guess its not too late. But this at least gives me hope and makes me feel that there is still good and hope in the world. India is a country that i see a bright future in. Theyre not super close allies with any world power but theyve actively been working on improving their social and economic situation for like 100 years now. Theyll survive and thrive even if a country like the US or China falls. Now they really need to focus on NOT getting into nuclear war with Pakistan... Lol some of the jobless losers seething here means something is being done right. Keep crying losers That’s 2223 data. Now it’s probably less than 3%. When the history of this century is written the eradication of poverty will be the defining achievement of the age. Aren’t they still measuring this by the $1.90 a day” standard? That standard was absurd to begin with. ¡The rich are getting richer and the poor are getting poorer! ... wait a minute ... /s One of tangible impacts of the change of Indian system from the Nehruvian license Raj to the hybrid system we have now. Can confidently say this number will reach zero in this decade. Good jorb!! If true is good thank you Capitalism! Great news less people starving to death is always a good thing. Staggering improvement millions have been lifted from poverty. Well done india Menawhile in the socialist shitshow Venezuela the extreme povery rate has climbed to 50%. Go India! [deleted] In the UK they did this by just changing the definition. So they did cut homelessness in half? Finally some good news. That feeling when you relalise its just not the number its real people is just so good from nearly 1/4th of the population to 5 percent thats a great achievementstill 5 percent is near 71 million more to achieve Great news. Ok thats just the Banks definition. If you cant afford basic needs you are in extreme poverty. Youre barely surviving with no electricityor stolen bad food and no plumbing. If you barely cover basic needs and live paycheck to paycheck youre either poor or working class. If you have disposable income youre lower middle class. If you have disposable income and can save then youre middle class. If you can afford luxuries like a brand new car of a luxury brand and exotic vacations then youre upper middle class. If you dont care or know what things cost then youre probably rich. Amazing! Hate the current government but it seems like they are doing some things right at least. Credit goes to the central govt for this achievement. I hope rahul gandhi and his party gets thrown out of the country and a better opposition party emerges 👏🏻👏🏻 great work my friends. Capitalism really is the best Congrats India on an amazing achievement! Good news Aur do Modi ko vote🙂 People keep telling me capitalism doesnt work its the ONLY system that has proved to be effective at lifting the most people out of poverty. Many people above this line still struggle daily with poor housing education and nutrition. Let’s dig deeper before celebrating too quickly guys... Post 97 Wagner Group leaving Mali after heavy losses but Russia’s Africa Corps to remain Author Equivalent_Road5788 Mali need only look to the Central African Republic for how useless and utterly detrimental having Russian forces are for security. Russian forces leaving has more to do with Russias inability to quickly and reliably supply them than do them accomplishing anything. They kicked out France for this? Hard to know who to pull for when all the parties involved are so bad Africa Corps man Russia really goes all in on Nazi terminology I just watched a documentary about the Central African Republic. Its insane how powerful Wagner is there. They essentially rule the country Ah thats what theyre after Mali is rich in natural resources with gold being the most prominent. The country is a major gold producer in Africa with substantial deposits estimated at 800 tons. Other important resources include iron ore uranium manganese lithium and limestone. So mission not accomplished?... Ukrainians helped them make the decision. More like Africa corpses Send them the Mission Accomplished banner I know its laying around somewhere. Well duh! Russian Africa Corpses will stay in Africa if they are dead... Asked ai and it said Yes the Wagner Group has announced that it is leaving Mali after more than three and a half years of operations claiming it has completed its mission. However Russian mercenaries will continue to be present in the country under a different group called the Africa Corps.” Post 98 JapanU.S. tariff talks still draw a blank at fifth meeting Author Body_Languagee Its hard to expect anything else when you have a deeply unserious administration that has no values beyond personal enrichment corruption and holds other nations sovereignty in contempt. The best thing other countries can do these days is to decouple their economies from ours before they sink with us. Japan didnt counter tariff USA. USA is happy with the current situation and has no incentive to negotiate. So if you do nothing you dont get a deal if you counter tariff then Trump increases the tariffs but then later caves and drops them. Trump Always Chickens Out Seems pretty clear what countries need to do. Art of the Stupid. I am SHOCKED that sending the same people over and over again. Hasnt somehow yielded a different result The Trump administration literally does not know how to make a deal. Even with our allies they just piss everyone off and accomplish nothing else. Well good thing Japan is the only hold out of 195 countries. Oh there are hundreds of countries that haven’t signed trade deals despite hundreds of trade deals being imminent a month ago? Weird. I’m sure all these trade deals will be signed in two weeks once the healthcare plan from Trump’s first term and his tax releases from the first time he ran will be made public. The US delegation literally does not know what to demand from Japan. There is no guiding principles beyond ‘trade deficit bad’. Japan can yield bonds over the next month or so as inflation takes hold. This would send the US a strong message to back off or soften its demands when it can finally get around to articulating them. Instead of squabbling amongst themselves like school children at the bargaining table. Wait… so Japan isn’t lining up to kiss Trump’s ass? I always laughed when people praised Japan for managing Trumps first presidency. Id see it in Canada a lot where theyd use Japan as an example against Trudeau. Now that Japan is actually in the crosshairs its vividly clear they dont know how to manage this either. Post 99 Polands newly elected president says he is currently against Ukraines accession to EU Author Andrew_Secret If Im not confusing articles he speaks against **accelerated** accession procedure not accession in general. It probably wouldn’t sound so ugly if he hadn’t added Other countries including Poland **Hungary** and other European nations have their own interests. Yeah we know that Hungary interest lies in sucking putin dick I just didn’t know that’s something the EU is supposed to support. Anyway it sounds more like an attempt to blackmail Ukraine than genuine concern that its not ready. Well I mean yeah. Ukraine needs to reach the requirements first. He is fervently anti Russia Joining the EU is complicated issue. he is wanted by Russia btw for the removal of Red Army monuments in Poland The same old broken record Orbán has been playing for a decade. Boring songs. No need to report them. Unfortunately Polands newly elected president is a certified Muppet. Fortunately polish president is more of a figurehead position hence why the PISs party could install a muppet. Its not news. This isnt happening anytime soon anyway. There are 2 issues he highlights the Volyn massacre from WW2 and competition from Ukraine in the logistics and agricultural sector. The agricultural competition is gonna be a hard one to work out much more than the others because Ukraine has large quantities of black soil. This soil allows for large scale agriculture without the need for industrial fertilizers. This is an issue that needs to be addressed because it has real ramifications on the EU economy at large for when Ukraine joins. I hate he won but he is right here. In his 1st term or even 2nd if he gets it ukraine wont be ready to join EU. Ukraine would probably replace Poland as the largest net recipient of the EU budget. Only an idiot would be for Ukraine joining EU at this moment. Even if the war ended today Ukraine would need HUGE reforms before it could join. Letting a country join out of pity is never going to work. Poles you didnt do yourselves any favors with this guy. For everyone trying to rationalise his position he is a far right populist playing up the fear and hate and Ukrainians are currently an easy target. This isn’t about policy or economics this is about scapegoating of a defenceless group which has no voice. He is not aiming to solve actual Polish problems he is simply repeating what AFD and the other far rights are doing and he also keeps ignoring actual facts and reality nobody is actually discussing immediate accession of Ukraine to EU it’s not a real concern of today he does it because it’s easier to rile up hate to outsiders and have a verbal row with some Ukrainian politician than solve current very real and complicated problems in Poland. People keep forgetting how useless populists are. Why? Why I am not surprised? A lot of EU countries dont want Ukraine to join because of the cost Another Nationalist fanboy. It’s no news that a right wing politician will support Egoism. Nationalism thinking = Egoistical ideology doing Russias bidding Poland is afraid of UA manufacturing and agriculture ruining its economy if trade barriers are brought down. Ofc it doesnt want UA in the EU. Russian stooge. Good thing his role is mostly representative. Ukraine jumping over other countires wouldnt be fair I agree. Good. Ukraine is far from ready to join the EU. You may not like it but its the truth. Thats very unfortunate to see that hate in poles hearts was capable of overruning their brains and elect russian puppet populist as a president Because he is Russias candidate. He has no executive power Ukraine joining wouldnt be within his presidential term regardless. They have some issues to fix beforehand. He said this before seccond round of presidiential elections to get the votes from right wing voters. Pure evil that. A Bothe Putin stooge With friends like this who needs enemies? Thanks poland! You do not have the cards my man. Ukraine isnt going to be in a single market or defence space with V4 countries. Not in five years not in ten not in twenty. Everyone knows it yet he still riles up antiUA sentiment. Oh shit i guess hes a far right Nazi now 😂 At least hes 100% against the gangsters in Moscow. He might come around to seeing the value of Ukraine as a friend when the real threat is dealt with. Its not completely unreasonable as they are currently at war. It would immediately trigger mobilization of european armed forces and thats an undesirable escalation Post 100 Kabul at risk of becoming first modern city to run out of water report warns Author Dystopics_IT Wow the population went from under 1m in 2001 to 7m now. Jesus Didn’t that happen in Cape Town like 10 years ago? The Taliban will just ban dehydration. Turns out that raging religious ZEALOTS absolutely SUCK at running things. That’s a shame. Have fun Taliban. modern city The first modern city to run out of water would have been Hong Kong in 1963. Water was rationed to the point it was available for 4 hours once every four days. https//en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Water_supply_and_sanitation_in_Hong_Kong Meh. Sucks for them but I dont want a dime going to help that regime. They want to live under a stone age religious theocracy they can pray for water and see what comes. Im so tired of the west propping up failed states and ideologies with humanitarian aid. Maybe if things actually got bad enough there the people would wake the fuck up and overthrow these backwards theocrats. The world absolutely does not need to address this. We tried for 20 years and they chose this path for themselves it is their problem to fix Corpus Christi Texas is expected to run out of water by 2027 so the USA has got them beat I guess? https//www.kiiitv.com/article/news/local/corpuschristiwaterdroughtproblemsexplained/5039e1ee348a5404668be6e0ec1dfa48846 There is literally a river running through the city isn’t it? Well of course this was and is the Taliban’s first priority. /s. Meh. Their nation chose the Taliban. Johannesburg? Their wives knew and said nothing! modern doing a lot of heavy lifting in that title. Fuck em first modern city😅 Kabul is closer to 14th century than to 21st century Cape Town first time? Modern” Talibans problem. Not ours. Kabul and modern city made me laugh... sorry Cape Town got pretty close in 201518. Sana the capital of wartorn Yemen is also running out of water. It had a population of over 2 million before the civil war broke out. It also depends on aquifers for water which is also running out. In addition Yemen is the poorest Arab country. They chose this path. They can lay with it. Before Vegas? I’m impressed! Send UHauls Trillions of dollars wasted on that country. They cant even drill for water? Sucks to suck idk. None of our business. Youd think God would provide enough water for his faithful theocrats but apparently it doesnt work that way. First of many probably I dont know about Kabul in particular but many of the arid areas in Afghanistan rely on extremely limited water already some of it runoff from the mountains after spring thaw. Desalinization plants? Not Bangalore? Surprising. They’ll just move to bottled water like the entire Arab world brought to you by Dannon. Whats worse is 1. Literally no one wants to admit to be helping Taliban controlled Afghanistan 2. The population increases during and after a time of war. Similar to the Baby Boom in the 1950s 3. The current government is not experienced in distribution nor governance. As such we dont even know if people can even send aid to them without being taken for the Taliban themselves. Where are the campus protests in regards to the rights of women under the Taliban? I did not see Kabul on first places on the list titled Cities with lots of water even 10years ago. Its still very unfortunate The US provided plenty of funds over the past twenty plus years to rebuild everything. Bribery and graft stole from most of the projects that could have helped the country. With the return of Taliban in control they need to fix it themselves. They reap what they sow. This is what happens when authoritarian ideologues seize control of government. They have refused and spat on outside help so they can’t expect it now. Modern is an interesting description of Kabul Modern. ?? All depends on how you define ‘modern’ I guess. I was assured wed run out of oil before we ran out of water. Modern city FTFY Nothing is modern in Afghanistan except all the equipment we left behind. Do people realize most of them use their hands to wipe themselves instead of toilet paper. People in one valley don’t talk to the people in a neighboring valley. It’s pretty archaic there. I can say with some confidence the west will not do a damn thing to help with this. The same will be said for countries in Africa and Latin America and every other country that is going to run our of water. The water wars are coming. First modern city so far insert Homer meme Been there. Not surprised. It’s a modern city? Kabul is a mediaeval city. Ehh modern” is probably stretching it. Post 101 Secret Russian Intelligence Document Shows Deep Suspicion of China Author Body_Languagee China is loving that Ukraine is depleting their aircraft and tanks… This is hardly surprising to anyone. If they weren’t already suspicious then they are even dumber now than when they invaded Ukraine. Russia has always had deep suspicion about everyone Once the Ukraine war concludes and likely leaves Russia very weakened I would not be surprised to see China twisting Putins arm over accesss to resoruces in SIberia/Manchuria. This has been China’s plan all along drip feed Russia enough support to prolong the war and obliterate Russia’s economy. Then after Russia collapses China can go in and get everything on the cheap. Doesn’t hurt that Russia is killing off its young men as well. I heard an analyst say that China doesn’t have any real friends only countries that it has a temporary use for. And right now Russia is a perfect guinea pig to find out how Western countries conduct a war. I bet they’d really like to test their own weaponry in Ukraine. China still claims what was Manchuria pretty heavily right? This is actually a big reason why Russia wants to go into Ukraine and the Baltics and take them over. It’s because the **actual** threat that Russia is aimed at. The actual existential fight they believe will happen this century for them. Is the one against China. Russia wants to secure its Western flank with geographical barriers so it can plug the gap against NATO with minimal forces so it can pivot the majority of its focus east and work on containing China and blunting any Chinese aggression. China and Russia are not friends. They are allies of convenience very temporarily but historically absolutely detest each other. They hate each other more than Russia hates the UK or more the China hates India. Chinas entire geopolitical framework that it sees the world through. The thing that the entire state is aimed at is to recover all traditional Chinese lands and to be the only hegemonic power in the Asia pacific. Not so it can be a super power who controls the world. China has little interest in the world outside of this region. And no imperial land acquisitions outside of these very well defined borders. At the moment and the first priority for China is Taiwan. Because China needs to take back Taiwan to plug the huge gap in its defences over the pacific and its coasts. And because it views Taiwan as part of this historical Chinese birthright. After Taiwan. China has made clear that the entirety of historical Manchuria is its goal. The land that Russia currently controls. So both these countries are abundantly clear in their messaging and privately within their domestic state apparatus that they believe some kind of conflict is destined to happen between them over Manchuria. Everybody who has even the most cursory toe dipped into the geopolitical world knows it. There is actually starting to come out some interesting initial reporting that China baited Russia into the war in Ukraine by exaggerating the level of industrial financial and diplomatic support China would give to Russia to help mitigate the reaction to the invasion and that Chinese intelligence and diplomatic sources assured Putin that the West would absolutely not step in at all so Ukraine would fall within a week or so. It’s remarkable how little support China has managed to give Russia in this war. And China has played a geopolitical masterpiece in the entire thing. It’s managed to give Russia just enough support to stop it outright losing but never enough to allow it to overcome Ukraine. It’s managed to degrade Russias economy by being one of the few countries willing to buy Russian goods but insisted on buying all Russian resources for Yuan flooding Russia with Chinas currency. As well as watching Russia degrade its entire formidable Cold War era weapons stockpiles and Russias manpower levels. And then it’s managed to even degrade the Wests capacity to supply weapons and the wests populations willingness to support another country at war in preparation for its own much telegraphed 2027 invasion of Taiwan. An absolute masterclass of international chess has been playing out the last few years. And I suspect historians are going to paint the last few years as all Chinese carefully laid out plans. Even Iran / Israel flaring up and Pakistan / India as well as a probably North Korea/South Korea flare up I would hazard a guess are all part of a larger Chinese campaign. And the only people who can stand against them not only elected Donald Trump but have gone on to alienate their entire framework of alliances and friendships around the world and isolated themselves lmao. Absolutely brilliant. China is a beast. And no I’m not a Chinese bot. I am an Irish immigrant to the UK. NYT got it all wrong...those are not Chinese spies...those are Chinese Bank Auditors looking into Putins mismanagement of their loans and determining if there is anything of value left in Russia to liquidate to recover their loans. Russia and China have been rivals more often than allies. But nolimit friendship Well I hope it’s secret. You can’t be saying that sort of thing about your owners out loud. Now kith. The comments are funny. Pretty sure a lot of commentors are from India hating on China and Pakistan and vice versa. Russia wants us to think China and them have cracks forming in their relationship. China will continue to provide weapons to Russia. Xi We own you Vladimir you may not know it yet or like it. But we own you vassal.” China is just waiting for Russia to crumble/strain itself ... to start gobbling the territory / influence. If Russia really hasnt figured out China is trying to turn them into a resource colony then I dont know how they have so called professionals and Im some random without a political science degree and even I know that. China is China. No need for suspicion theyll let you know. China is the least reliable ally anyone can have. They invaded India despite India being one of the first nation to recognize them as well as provide medical aid during civil war. Russia Pakistan and any country in Chinas influence will find that out very soon. You know there was a classic Star Trek episode where omnipowerful extraterrestrials forced two major powers to stop fighting. That is what we need right there an entity that doesn’t act like a couple of selfish paranoid children in a sandbox and just says that is it folks all done kiss and make up learn to get along or you will be vaporized. China turns on Russia. Russia turns to the west and laughably asks for help. That’s my prediction. That should just be common sense. I mean…. They are sitting on a good chunk of land China still considers rightfully there’s. They will return for it one day. Russia contributed to China’s century of humiliation” and China is waging hybrid warfare on all countries that they are spiteful towards yet they want the rest of the world to believe their nolimits partnership is rocksolid. All those idiots in the Kremlin and CCP don’t even know how to lie consistently. I think there is some disputed territory between russia and china around siberia borders. I think i heard a news caster say once that russia depleting all of its conventional military equipment with the ukraine war is good for china. China could if they really wanted just go in and take this disputed territory. And russia wouldnt really be able to do anything especially if it was currently in this future time still at war in ukraine. I wrote my course thesis paper at my university about the evolution of chinas approach to the Arctic. And let me tell you Russia doesn’t trust China at all Hey China if you dont invade Taiwan well totally look the other way if you take Siberia ok? I was thinking of something like this happening but I didnt think it actually would great timing what I think is more interesting is weather the chinese knew of this before this leak or no That’s why it’s called intelligence” It never made sense to me why China was helping Russia they stand to gain so much more with a weakened splintered or void Russian state. Thanks for confiding in me. I won’t tell. They’d be fools not to be suspicious. And they have warned that Chinese intelligence agents are carrying out espionage in the Arctic using mining firms and university research centers as cover. Hey Australia China has 5 bases in the AAT. The problem China has regaining the Aigun treaty lands East Pacific coast i Russia is entrenched in Vladivostok. Takes a war to remove them. ii Russia makes a lot of money from mining. iii Russia cant defeat China militarily. And absolutely not while it is at war with the West. China might make a power play with threats possible but Russia will argue back. If push comes to shove and China uses military force Russia will threaten nukes as Stalin did. iv The real point is if Russia collapses in the unlikely event of a proWestern government about the possibility of a snowflake in hell China will have no buffer state to its East and North. China will find it intolerable to allow a potential Occidental threat and will take the East. Again very small chance of that scenario arising. What is left is China taking back what they believe is theirs. Cant see it at the threat of nuclear war let alone collapsing Russia and China losing its buffer state. Save Arent there enough secret Russian intelligence documents to show deep suspicion of every nation on Earth? Deep suspicion of what it’s politics nothing is free and there is no charity Russia feared China more than the US even during the Cold War. They called them something like the Yellow Menace. The draft report was written by Russian counterintelligence spy hunters. Counterintelligence analysis is generally going to be extremely tin foil hatted” as their job is to root out conspiracies before they happen. Thus counterintelligence units take a lot of shots miss most of them hopefully taking down enough valid targets along the way.” Don’t get me wrong. Russia’s run by a tyrant on a war of conquest China is looking to expand their sphere of influence and would take an opportunity if it was good enough. But this is more like far left field contingency planning”… these sorts of analysts write all sorts of crap proposals that never go anywhere. Ive said it before and Ill say it again my main surprise from the Russia/Ukraine war is that China isnt nipping off bits of Russia while their army is otherwise occupied. thats one of the most significant pieces of information that we discovered through the U2 spy plane program during the cold war. the West assumed that the USSR and Red China were very close since they were both communist. but then the U2s flew over their border and saw a ton of armaments and military assets along their border which clued us in to them very much not operating as one communist entity. this information helped contribute to Nixons decision to reach out to China and form some economic cooperation. China wants resources obviously but also clear access to the Artic circle. Future wars will be fought there. Russia also has rocket and jet engine technology China wants. That is the one of the last pieces of meat on the carcass before it is left to rot. Russia can be a good neighbour for now as China focuses South East. Russia’s deeply suspicious about Russians. If youre not suspicious of china youre not paying attention. Yo Putin beg Xi for factories again. In case you forgot what he said last time. China loves keeping its real enemies close. Didn’t I hear about Ukraine finding Chinese fighters on the front lines recently? Guys its geopolitics China is pretty smart. They know damn well they are interested in the oil fields Russia has. However for now its better to appease than completely threaten. Russia is under geopolitical threat for more than one side it has not been relevant for a while but has to make itself relevant otherwise it will be in complete decline. How wild would it be if China does a 180 and a tax Russia and becomes uss Ally. Wild timeline And people thought I’m nuts for saying that China is more likely to invade Russia than Taiwan!? Histoically they have never gotten on the current situation serves chinas interests nothing more. Im mean they think they need buffer states to protect against Europe. China has plans to retake land when Russia collapses Surprising absolutely no one as it one would have to be astronomically naive to think that Chinas tacit support for Russia is a free lunch. Since the invasion of Ukraine I sort of wondered if Russia became weakened to a certain point how hard would it be for China to just steam roll them from the back door. Unlikely scenario but in this new world I am no longer surprised. Wait for Putin to die support different regional governors to separate their republics from the federation offer to help them denuclearize in return for investment and bribe the new governments in the East to open their borders to China. 25 years later people will speak of Russia the way we speak about the Soviet Union. Post 1 If the Magic School Bus kids could safely explore inside someone’s body that person must’ve had a seriously suppressed immune system — because a healthy immune system would’ve definitely elicited an immune response and attacked them. Author bondies /u/bondies has flaired this post as a **casual thought**. Casual thoughts should be presented well but may be less unique or less remarkable than . If this post is poorly written unoriginal or rulebreaking please report it. Otherwise please add your comment to the discussion! &ampnbsp This is an automated system. If you have any questions please to message the moderators. No the immune system did attack them. They just had plot armor so they are able to escape and get away from them. Is it a shower thought when what you described is quite literally the plot and the entire point of what is probably one of the most wellknown episodes? So a bus that can fly through space teleport and shrink are all believable but the ability to travel through the human body undetected is a bridge too far? The immune system does attack them. They survive because of magic and the kid survives because they are not actually a threat. Lets be honest Ms Frizzle could have been performing microsurgery and saving lives everyday with the school bus and instead she was educating an elementary schools class. Lol. Imagine being a freaking goober who has to get corrected on the specifics of a magic school bus episode they failed to correctly remember the plot of. They were also attacked in the immune system of the person in The Fantastic Voyage which that episode was an homage to. Magic means there can be magically resistant to activating immune system. Hell if a doctor can give you a pacemaker that doesnt aggravate your immune system then a magic school bus for sure could! The magic in a magic school bus is important. OP didnt watch the magic school bus and it shows. They 100% got attacked by white blood cells its half the reason I know they exist. The other half being osmosis jones Objection they’d only be attacked if they have surface antigens that could be recognized by the immune system. That’s why the immune system doesn’t go crazy on biocompatible implants. I think so many vore fetishes were brought about by people watching or reading this series. They did get attacked by his immune system..... Have you seen Innerspace? Delightfully insane scifi from the late 80s or early 90s. Arnold survived the vacuum of space. He doesnt have an immune system because he doesnt need one. Edit Im talking about the episode where they enter Arnolds body and there is absolutely no immune response. Ralphie is a different story. I dont see why a scrap of metal and glass would necessarily provoke an immune response. The immune system is looking for foreign proteins is it not? Now I want to see remakes of the episodes and for them to go horrible wrong/realistic Who says the Magic Schoolbus couldnt also masquerade as a part of the body? Its freakin magic. Mmm Raquel Welch in Fantastic Voyage I think you might be thinking of the school bus because the idea of magic seems to not be relevant in your postulate. to be fair the amount of time they spent in Ralphie‘s body was probably less than a few hours and they weren‘t causing any residual damage which could have been picked up by the innate immune system. Ofc can‘t illustrate that for a kids cartoon but B cells antibodies and T cells take way more time to be properly elicited. considering they only stayed within a school day for that episode I assume they probably didn’t have too much of a problem The immune system is sort of like jelly fish they just float around and bump into things sometimes macrophages they follow a chemical scent”.. the school bus isn’t going to have anything to hone in on. [deleted] OR the magic schoolbus is made of a biologically inert material or has magic abilities to mimic molecular markers of the host cells. Fantastic Voyage had a major plot point of this with them having to fight off white blood cells. Of course no magic there just technology heh. Maybe but how would the immune system recognize really shrunken down proteins. They don’t have anything in the correct size for the immune system to recognize it. It would be like recognizing a rock or iron. It might cause an immune response but not a massive one like a pathogen would It was Ralphie. Antibodies stuck to the bus white blood cells tried to consume them. lmao fr those kids should’ve been swarmed by white blood cells the second they stepped in You forget that Ms.Frizzle has a reputation...The White Blood Cells saw how she benched those 225 for reps with a smile. They clocked out because she was on duty . Nope the Magic School Bus is magic therefore the immune system was aware that they meant no harm and were just on a learning adventure. I would have loved to see that episode! Any episode where biology or the laws of nature acted realistically against them The Magic School bus gets nearly eaten by a swarm of white blood cells The Magic School Bus is killed by a predator The Magic School Submersible implodes deep in the ocean That’s where you draw the line huh? This bus can fly to outer space go into volcanoes turn into a submarine… but they shrink down small enough to go inside a body and explore and it’s just too unbelievable that said person’s immune response didn’t do anything about it? That’s just one step too far in the suspension of disbelief? How did this get up voted so high? Did no one actually watch the show? What about the bacteria in their bodies also being shrunk? Would they have had an easier time of infiltrating the other person’s body and been harder to kill? Post 2 In a few years AIorReal guesser will probably be a real job. Author LongSession4079 /u/LongSession4079 has flaired this post as a **speculation**. Speculations should prompt people to consider interesting premises that cannot be reliably verified or falsified. If this post is poorly written unoriginal or rulebreaking please report it. Otherwise please add your comment to the discussion! &ampnbsp This is an automated system. If you have any questions please to message the moderators. Said job is far more likely to be another AI than a human. I genuinely think AI either is already at the point where we cant differentiate it from an actual image or its extremely close. Talking few years close at the most I dont think this job will be done by a human OP What about browser extensions that block or detect AI? Guesser sounds like he isn’t very good at his job This job will exist from approximately July 2025 to approximately February 2026 at which point it will be impossible to tell AI from real and the job will be gone. Nope because MI/ML machine intelligence/learning or AI will be used to detect AI. Problem will solve the problem. [deleted] That wouldnt be a separate job. That would just fall under the category of an online detective. Funny thing that job would be best done by an all ADHD crew. Best natural prediction engines live in their heads. Part of my job involves assessing two identical” AI created videos and judging which one is more realistic. I’m a small cog in the machine creating our replacements. Its probably called something like Visual Authenticity Confirmation Specialist. VACS for short. The job relies heavily on AI to spot AI. Finally a real life application for real or cake” experts I disagree with this take. In a few years it will be completely impossible to tell the difference. At the state of the art it’s already impossible. That job already exists. It’s called high school teacher” It already has been. It’s called trust and safety” now but it’s had several hats over the past 60 years or so. Right how scary that the responses might be wide but okay if you cant tell does it matter? sexy Westworld robot whose name I forget I am sure we are far far away from AI images being matching on a technical level but we are at the point where an eye test stops being enough. This is actually part of my real job in AI. Post 3 Human waste disposal networks are some the most important infrastructure for our way of life and very few people ever see them. Author Alfiy_wolf /u/Alfiy_wolf has flaired this post as a **casual thought**. Casual thoughts should be presented well but may be less unique or less remarkable than . If this post is poorly written unoriginal or rulebreaking please report it. Otherwise please add your comment to the discussion! &ampnbsp This is an automated system. If you have any questions please to message the moderators. I guess this applies to a lot of infrastructure tbf It’s crazy how something so important like waste disposal just runs in the background of our lives. Most people never see it never think about it but without it cities would be unlivable. For how important human waste disposal is the people who work hard to maintain it and keep it running get paid jack squat. Responsible for at least 20 years of extra life expectancy that humanity has achieved It’s something that not many people would even consider 99.9% of the time unless something goes wrong and it’s forced to the front of their minds. I always wondered where does it go? How is it treated? Facts. I dont even think humanity wants to see it. That includes the drain of the shower we think in. In germany my elementary school back in the day had a mandatory field day to a waste disposal facility. Many schools had similar days I dont know if its depending on the school or if its mandated in the curriculum I just found it quite fascinating when I got older how invested my school was in teaching about such things I thought you were discussing water reclamation plants but after reading the comments I realized I was wrong. Water reclamation plants smell like you think they do. But they are huge so driving past one you will have seen it. The sewage system not so much. But the sewers collapsing as one poster suggested post earthquake in LA is horrifying. We had orangeberg in our front yard. Yup post WWII shortage of metal and some genius suggests paper mache tubing and it collapsed. Nightmare. As a civil engineer in a former life I could opine on this subject for hours. Solid waste disposal as well. We have no idea how good we have it. Waste disposal systems are the way we can live in cities without all dying of diseases in short order. Also its been a while since I checked but being a garbage man was literally the most dangerous profession there is. Im sure its still up there if its not #1. The shit that people put in their garbage is CRAZY. You can use human sewage to grow foods that have nearly aligned Omega 6 to Omega 3 ratios [deleted] NIN created a music video about this subject called Pinion”. https//youtu.be/XfW0ke4bwI4 Ive been traveling a lot and its something Ive been thinking about in the airport bathrooms or any public bathrooms recently. We have all this technology to fly around in metal tubes but were still animals and have to piss and shit. All these important businessmen going to and from still need to piss and shit. So we built these nice little facilities to whisk the waste away. No matter how classy and civilized we are we still have to expel some nasty stuff from our bodies and do something with it. Weve gotten really good at it though. Most people begin building their fantasy worlds with the Gods I began mine with the sewers When you say human waste disposal networks which few people ever see I must assume that you are only referring to municipal sewer systems in an urban context. But there are about 20 million homes in the USA 16 percent of all homes which have their own private septic system maintained by the homeowner himself. The real unsung heroes of civilization handling the stuff we don’t wanna think about. I read that the people who maintain this sort of thing...which is VERY important otherwise wed all get sick and die quickly...dont get paid as much as say...a McDonalds worker? Ive seen a toilet before lol I know what you mean And like most of the other civil infrastructure in the US they are little more than paintedover rust. We are headed for some major disasters in the country and it wont be because illegal aliens are picking lettuce or because the library has a gay book in it. Picture this its 2029 and The Big Quake finally hits LA. Now mainly due to the states superstrict earthquake building codes or as Republicans call them jobkilling regulations the surface damage and deaths are relatively light. But underground its a different story. Hundreds of miles of aging sewer lines collapse into rubble and for monthsmaybe yearsnobody in downtown LA can flush a toilet. Think people might get interested in the topic THEN? Some of the most interesting city tours Ive been on were underground. As a plumber. You’re welcome and I’m glad someone sees us. The size of some of the sewers under major cities is mindblowing. Tokyos is the biggest Dont thank your doctor for your longevity thank your plumber Imho this is what people should think when someone talks about deep state all the people that allow the basic infrastructure of a country to just function normally. As undramatic as essential. Practical engineering would approve of this post Rural folk tend to have fairly intimate knowledge of their sewage systems especially if they also use well or spring water. I think for most urban dwellers the sewage system figures more into urban mythology alligators CHUDs and so on than their daily lives. One thing Ive found surprising in recent years is how many urban areas still have some unfortunate connection between their sewage and street drainage rainwater systems. When one gets overloaded it dumps into the other with unpleasant results. If you find yourself looking at your intestines and colon I suppose you have more immediate problems than pressure washing your driveway. Post 4 The Grinch’s enlarged heart was likely a medical cause of his personality change not a symptom of it. Author Fast_Garlic_5639 /u/Fast_Garlic_5639 has flaired this post as a **speculation**. Speculations should prompt people to consider interesting premises that cannot be reliably verified or falsified. If this post is poorly written unoriginal or rulebreaking please report it. Otherwise please add your comment to the discussion! &ampnbsp This is an automated system. If you have any questions please to message the moderators. Well his blood pressure probably skyrocketed. He then went crazy and had a concerning personality change. Next step was likely fatal. Youre assuming that the Grinch has human biology when his species is a What quite possibly the last of his kind but closely related to the Who of Whoville. We dont have any medical data to go on to form any kind of assumption on this species. Enlargement of the heart could be a common biological change for a What as they mature. He never did cardio and his heart was atrophied. The lack of oxygen to his system made him miserable and grouchy. Once he ran up the entire mountain and used all of his strength to pull the sled he started to work his heart and it got stronger leading to a drop in his symptoms which were causing his negative attitude. Checks out Sarcoidosis? Take an LP and dont let House near him! Physiology aside Grinch was only trying to avoid people and hang out with his dog. But they pushed him too far . . .. D Dr. Seuss came back from the dead to tell me the curtains were blue Actually he probably died from refeeding syndrome after living a spartan existence for 53 years and then suddenly feasting on Who pudding and rare Who roast beast. nothing like sudden cardiac issues to force some deep personal growth. Thats the point fam he gained empathy aka gained a heart. [deleted] dude had an untreated heart condition and suddenly found empathy Film Theory did an episode on something like this So true — maybe it was heart growth causing the kindness not the result of it! Post 5 Contained in a pastry shell we can cook anything semisolid in a toaster. Yet we underachieve with just PopTarts and Toaster Strudels. Author mouthygoddess /u/mouthygoddess has flaired this post as a **speculation**. Speculations should prompt people to consider interesting premises that cannot be reliably verified or falsified. If this post is poorly written unoriginal or rulebreaking please report it. Otherwise please add your comment to the discussion! &ampnbsp This is an automated system. If you have any questions please to message the moderators. Its like the question of why theres no veggie hot pockets?. You made the most convenient food delivery system and stopped at junk food. Unless you want your pastry burned to a crisp or you want raw uncooked food inside you have to carefully pick your contents and also your surface area to volume ratios PopTarts and Toaster Strudels are themselves an underachievement. I dont think the way toasters heat would allow for anything that doesnt need to be quickly heated to be safe to eat... So anything other than shelf stable precooked foods would be a risk. The heating elements are to close and the outside would burn Thats why we evolved to the air fryer lol. This is a good point! Where are my savoury toaster pastries and better dessert ones? Sausage rolls spanakopita pain au chocolate.. I saw a video once of a lady who sliced sweet potatoes and put them in a toaster as her goto snack. I can’t imagine it’d cook all the way through though so maybe it was a fake video. But it sounded like a great idea. I have yet to try it though There are plenty of versions of a poptart Um. Excuse you. Toaster strudel is one of the best things humans have ever invented. Thats because after they came up with toaster strudels it was Game Over. My brother has a room mate who used to put octopus in the toaster. He decided roommates werent worth the trouble after that guy. Id love to have toaster knishes or cornish pasties. There use to be these chicken pot pie pockets in the 2000s with a roll type of bread they were my obsession. OP out there unlocking toaster mini game achievements The Texans have deepfried _beer_ using pastry so theres that at least. Ah the untapped potential of the toaster pastry! We’ve got the technology to encase curry stew or even mac ’n’ cheese! I have tried a chicken patty that was designed to go in the toaster. It was...fine. it didnt last. Flew too close to the sun I guess. Potato waffles! Don’t forget the potato waffles! so many possibilities but we’re stuck on sugary snacks smh There are actually other food inside pastry shells but they’re often cooked in ovens or air fryers because their shapes won’t always fit inside a conventional toaster such as round chicken pot pies or large fruit pies. Ovens and air fryers are easier to clean than a toaster too. We have the technology. What we lack… is courage. Back in the day we had toaster pizzas. They tasted weird and always spilled. I loved them. [deleted] I cant be the only one who toasts their empanadas. Jimmy dean has these toaster pop ups” which are basically a mix between a PopTart and a toaster strudel but filled with meat and cheese and eggs and they’re really good. Wayyyy better than the pilsburry version. Ok I need to know who else puts butter on the back of their pop tarts? While there are certainly better foods in the world the fact that you consider Pop Tarts an underachievement is indicative not only of your taste but your intelligence and quality as a human being. Post 6 You cant change what you did in the past but what you decide to do right now is changing the history of your future self. Author deranged_scumbag /u/deranged_scumbag has flaired this post as a **casual thought**. Casual thoughts should be presented well but may be less unique or less remarkable than . If this post is poorly written unoriginal or rulebreaking please report it. Otherwise please add your comment to the discussion! &ampnbsp This is an automated system. If you have any questions please to message the moderators. I’ve decided right now since I can’t change it I’ll lie about my past. Congratulations! Youve discovered how time works. For some reason this realization often happens in showers. So if I decide to die right now no more problems at all! So you can change what you did in your future’s past? Related statement People are afraid to time travel to the past because they think a tiny influence can massively change the present. People dont think their current actions can change the future. You can change your future you just have no way of knowing what it will change from or what it will change to Plot twist AI is currently busy making changes to what you will do in the future. It’s doing these alterations right now as we speak. everything we do right now has an effect it may not be huge but its an effect nonetheless right now i am looking at my laptop and listening to music. Not really memorable in the future however its peaceful I guess. A moment doesnt have to be truly memorable to be a moment you can enjoy what you do right now even if it doesnt seem much. I don’t think people realize the importance of this statement. Relevant snippet I read once But he *could* there was no rule saying he couldnt he *could* just pretend hed never heard that little whisper. Let the universe go on in exactly the same way it would have if that one critical moment had never occurred. Twenty years later that was what he would desperately wish had happened twenty years ago and twenty years before twenty years later happened to be right now. Altering the distant past was easy you just had to think of it at the right time. Harry Potter and the Methods of Rationality THIS ISNT HIGH QUALITY OR WELL WRITTEN AND YET NOTHING I POST GET ACCEPTED I VG WANT TO BE BAN RIGHT NOW!!!!!!!! I think the word change means getting a chance to go back and do things differently. So we’re not really changing history we’re making it. Needed this. I’ve been drowning in guilt about stuff I can’t undo. Feels good to remember I can still shape who I become. There have been times lately when I dearly wished that I could change the past. Well I can’t but I can change the present so that when it becomes the past it will turn out to be a past worth having. I Shall Wear Midnight Terry Pratchett [deleted] Beautifully said. *Sadhana Panchakam* teaches that every present action done with awareness and discipline reshapes the course of our inner evolution. Hiten Bhuta often emphasizes this—liberation isn’t in the past or future but in right action right now. Your future self is built on the choices you make today. For deeper insights check out . Post 7 It is astounding how much importance chefs and foodies place in the culinary opinions of a tire manufacturer. Author wfezzari /u/wfezzari has flaired this post as a **casual thought**. Casual thoughts should be presented well but may be less unique or less remarkable than . If this post is poorly written unoriginal or rulebreaking please report it. Otherwise please add your comment to the discussion! &ampnbsp This is an automated system. If you have any questions please to message the moderators. Come up with a good system and the people will support it. It started as a marketing gimmick to get people to use their tires to find the best food in the world and it stuck because they legitimately created something reputable. They were the only company that made a readily available free guide to food across many countries that didnt read like a pretentious foodie talking to an experienced chef but read like one road trip dad to another recommending a good food spot. No chefs or culinary experts cared until people started flooding the locations mentioned in the guide Pretty sure the people making those guides have little to do with the tire manufacturing arm of the company. The Michelin Star system was a marketing campaign by Michelin to get people to do more roadtrips and travel to see these places therefore wearing down their tires and needing more. This isnt a crackpot theory either Most really good ideas arent used for their perfect purpose at the time of their conception. It makes sense that a tire company would want to advertise restaurants from all different regions so people would drive and wear out their tires as fast as possible. But this use case would only provide a very minute profit margin. Since they were the first to come up with this idea at scale they just became a reliable objective third party without any real incentive to lie. Its brilliant If it tastes better than a Michelin tire it gets 5 stars from me. I legitimately learned that its the same Michelin as the tire brand only last week. My whole life I just assumed it was 2 unrelated organizations with the same name. Guinness book of world records is from the beer Guinness Theyre just trying to have a goodyear like all of us Another fun fact their mascot the Michelin Man is named Bibendum from the phrase nunc est bibendum” which roughly translates as now it’s time to drink”. I mean look at the guy. The Michelin Man looks like he knows food. Theyre placing the importance on the culinary opinions of food reviewers *paid* by a tire manufacturer. I assume the factories accountants and machine operators and so on arent involved in any way lol. The perfect shower thought... a take that would be totally invalidated by the first google search. When tech companies try out waterproof phones or voice dictation these posts will disappear forever. Fucking AHEM. What started a gimmick turned into an international phenomenon which created an entirely new breed of professional Chef. Those stars are bled for even a single star is enough to land a Chef a wellpaid position with a reputable firm or nearly guarantees financing from any lending agent in the world if one were to open ones own place. Ive worked with only three Chefs who went on to earn their stars two of them have represented their respective countries in the Culinary Olympics. All three are absolute geniuses. Weve been down this road before so I wont retread it Michelin has a long history of legitimate dining and food reviews People also trust a brewer to track world records My nephew works in the industry. He works at a Michelin star restaurant he’s getting his Sommelier thingy and he slangs caviar as a side hustle. He always takes us to these crazy pretentious spots. He took us to get pizza and I thought it was a night club with a dry aging room for cold cuts. I took him to this noodle hole in the wall with roaches my wife doesn’t let me take us here but it was an opportunity I couldn’t pass. They have a decent bun Bo hue for a Chinese place. He loved it. He asked us to take again. [deleted] Theres a funny history lesson in this thought. Look it up. You aint gonna regret it. Started as marketing stayed because its a cultural icon that has kept its standards. Me when I just learn about the Michelin Guide A quick rabbit hole dive explains the history Not sure if this is meant as a joke but it has to do with how far people would travel to go to a specific place to eat. It actually does make sense. It is also astounding how much important people place in the hogwash opinions of food critic reviews on websites Have you heard about the Guinness records? They make beer. Its more the brand history and the historic travel that came with it The Michelin guide is a terrific gift to travelers in a new city. I use it regularly with wonderful results. In my own city it has helped me discover restaurants I would never encounter because local reviews are weirdly weighted towards those who advertise in the places that review local places to eat. Funny that. The Michelin Guide used to mean something and ironically never been American friendly. You know the country where everyone drives everywhere and destination dining is a thing. After pulling the Vegas guide 15 years ago the only American cities with a guide were New York Chicago Los Angeles and San Francisco. Now all your city has to do is have the Chamber of Commerce pay them and theyll create a guide for your area. Denver Portland Vancouver BC etc. all have Michelin rated restaurants now. Seattle does not because they didnt pay. When cars were brandspankingnew the guy buying 50 tires a year probably wasnt the worst source for what restaurant 50 miles south of here knows its stuff. While they cant cook they surely know a thing or two about pressure! Who knew that Michelin stars werent just for fancy restaurants but also for the best tires? Next theyll be telling us how to pair our pasta with the perfect tread! When it starred owning a car was am absolutely luxury only enjoyed by the wealthy. They may be just a tire company now but 100 years ago they were a luxury brand serving the wealthiest in society. Its because the tire manufacturer used to sell travel guides so they could sell more tires which became really popular and a good review in it could really boost a restaurant. It was a clever and extremely French ruse by Michelin tyres to get people to use their cars more by driving to these destination restaurants. It worked too. It used to be a road trip thing. 3 stars meant it was totally going out of your way for 2 stars meant if youre nearby its worth going to and 1 star meant if youre passing it its worth going to. When you look into the origin and history of it then it makes complete sense. right? like who asked the tire guy for food tips lol fun fact they give you a fourth michelin star if you eat an entire one of their tires Well tires came from Akron Ohio... And its all Ohio Always has been. They will also not give Stars to restaurants in cities or countries that do not sell their tires. Guide became total shit and worthless the moment they started giving out stars to ramen shops and chicken rice stands. Once Netflix has 16 shows about it consider the prestige dead. Too bad for all those fine dining places that actually earned it. Worthless now. As a 36yo from North Jesseshire who’s flipped more pancakes than a shortorder cook on a caffeine binge I find it hilar.. lol Chefs do so much but stay lowkey time for them to get more credit! Had a coworker who used to be a sommelier say that any restaurants that have Lemons with so many seeds in them get marks against them in the Michelin grading system. Post 8 I dont think that I would be able to recognize my genitals in an album of genitals. Author WildSoapbox The moderators have reflaired this post as a **casual thought**. Casual thoughts should be presented well but are not required to be unique or exceptional. Please review for more information. &ampnbsp This is an automated system. If you have any questions please to message the moderators. Pretty sure I could recognize your genitals in an album of genitals Why is your coffee table book an album of genitals though? This has gotta be an actual shower thought I think i might be able too I got a freckle pattern i call my snake bite on my left ball. Anus on the other hand. This is a good one OP. I’m not sure either. I know the top down view really well but apart from posh hotels I rarely get a good view of the parade uniform. I reckon I could identify myself in a line up of five but beyond 10 I wouldn’t know. I think it depends on the angle of the photos. I dont know if Id recognize mine if it was like a head on shot because I never see myself from that angle. But if it was top down Im sure I would. Having one ball puts me in a more easily identifiable demographic I got bit by a horse fly on the tip of my dick when I was 5 and still have a small scar. That would be my defining characteristic. That’s good if they ever whip out a mugshot book. I could definitely ID mine from a regular observers POV but from like a gyno POV no shot. I have a mole that i think i could use to recognize myself but then again maybe not. I rarely ever see it from the bottom up To be fair there are many other body parts this applies to for me for example my knees. Perhaps you have scholongopagnosia an inability to recognize genitals. Thats why I always mark mine with nail polish Eh depends on the angle. If it was a topdown view Id know that prick anywhere but from below or straight on Id probably have trouble recognizing the fucker Today on sentences I’d never thought I’d read! We’ve got whatever this is I do hope that you mean photos of your genitals an ACTUAL genital album is somewhat disturbing. Thinking about it unless you are a very talented contortionist its something that you would rarely come facetoface with. Unless If I saw my genitals in porn Id feel bad for the person giving and the person receiving. My junk is like holiday fruitcake. It can be regifted but nobody is ever happy to have it show up. I have five genital piercings all 0 gauge. I could recognize my genitals anywhere. I definitely think Id recognize mine. Pretty unique in its own way. If you couldn’t spot it in a photo album you could try a blind taste test. I have a birthmark on my penis so I’m good From a POV looking down angle i think I could get it but police line up style there’s no way. This should be a segment on a game show. So much lighting goes into porn so the genitalia looks desirable. Dick picks in poor lighting look like uncooked bratwurst wrapped in dollar general steel wool Wouldnt be too difficult for me. Which ever picture was taken with a microscope is mine. I might have some shot depending on the size of the album just because Im part of the minority of noncircumcised penishaving Americans though that minority is apparently getting larger. How large is this album? In number of pages I mean This question made me wonder if i’d be able to tell if they were replaced with prosthetics Reminds me of the scene in Fleabag where the main character picks out her fathers erect penis out of a wall of erect penises and the stepmother walks away confused and annoyed. For some reason I was thinking you wouldnt recognize the sound from a record album Well the problem with being able to recognise your genitals in an album of genitals is that youre able to recognise your genitals in an album of genitals. I would in a heartbeat. Lol not sure if this is a flex or a burn…. I am entitled confident that I would not want to try Mine are quite pretty so Ive been told but Ive seen nudes online that looked like mine so I doubt I could pick mine out in an anonymous photo album. I wouldnt recognize my genitals if I could see them right now. Havent seen them over the gut and fupa in a decade. And every time I try to bend over to see they pop back inside...... Tell me more about this album of genitals you speak of. I mean if its a random sampling half will be the wrong gender about 7090% will have the wrong skin tone depending on your hair color thats probably another big chunk gone. Then theres landscaping before you even have to get down to general appearance... Id say you should be able to handle a book of several hundred pages. Ive watched a lot of pornography and have never seen genitals that were like mine enough that I couldnt tell the difference. I think it depends on the angle the photo was taken What Im learning here is that people need to check themselves more often. Guys especially. Testicular cancer is no joke and commonly affects men/male bodied humans earlier than youd think. Anyone ever just watch their balls move around ? They move independently. It’s weird as fuck lol I would be able to. Recognize your genitals that is. I could. My first ever girlfriend was kind enough to give me a scar from tip to base. Watch out for braces yall. Every time I look in the mirror I think who is that fat fucker ? Not one Chappelle’s Show reference? I’m disappointed in ya’ll. If my now husband could recognize mine in a lineup I think you’d be able to recognize your own. I believe in you! I know I can. I see the top often and the bottom has a birthmark on it I 100% guarantee I could spot my setup in any lineup. What album of genitals made you think about it when you studied its contents? I would recognize mine theyd be the ones that hurt because I slammed another book closed on tn them. I have a mole down there so I think thatd make it easy Damn talk about not knowing yourself. Ive named 3777 out of the 4567891 individual hairs in my ass. I know it like the palm of my hand. Probably because they would be photographed at a straight on angle if they did a POV angle you would probably be alright Me neither. But Ive never seen your genitals. Honestly if I had to identify my genitals in an album I’d probably just end up playing a game of Guess Who? with my friends. Does it have a beard? No? Then it’s not mine! Filter by cut colour length and girth and it wouldn’t take me long to find mine. Well that plus I have an incision scar from inguinal hernia surgery. Erect I could probably be able to identify. Flaccid I would be screwed. Growers rise up I probably could but I’m bisexual so I imagine I pay more attention to genitals of the same sex than most straight folks. It wouldn’t be worth looking through the parade of dongs Funny enough though my hand would recognize my wiener in an instant... Pretty sure absolutely everything about this thought is quite disturbing. Honestly same. I feel like in a lineup mine would just be vibes and guesswork [deleted] I definitely could I have a freckle on the stitch line I definitely could recognize my past partners genitals from a lineup. Including my own cause I have scars from mole removal and flat moles so yeah… I have to check regularly…. But could you recognize your elbow in an album of elbows? Pretty sure I couldn’t even recognize mine in a lineup. Well its not like youre standing in front of a mirror every morning combing and/or shaving your public hair Sounds like people in this thread arent sending enough spicy pictures to their significant others Y’all don’t know what your genitals look like? I am 100% positive I could spot Humphrey in an album no matter the size. Of the album After I get an orchiectomy itll be really easy for me Ive got a little turkey gobble at the end of my tip from a botched circumcision so.it couldnt be me. Thats him officer!! Thats my dick!!! I dont think I could find mine in an album of thumbs. Post 9 The people who pay the $4 fee for immediate deposit are the same people who used to spend in game currency to skip mobile game timers. Author SacrificialToenail /u/SacrificialToenail has flaired this post as a **speculation**. Speculations should prompt people to consider interesting premises that cannot be reliably verified or falsified. If this post is poorly written unoriginal or rulebreaking please report it. Otherwise please add your comment to the discussion! &ampnbsp This is an automated system. If you have any questions please to message the moderators. doubt it. people who need money now for food vs. people who can blow a few dollars on a game Paying because you cant wait for a time gated game and paying because you cant wait 2 days for banks to move money are not the same thing I know these words but this doesn’t make any sense I which country do people need to pay for a deposit to be instant ? Dont your banks use computers ? Im sorry the fee for the what? have you considered changing banks if there are ones who dont do this bs? Or we just need our money right now in a world where being poor is expensive and hunger doesnt take a day off Damn American banks really make up charges out of their asses. And you people actually pay them too. Thats just sad. The amount of people not understanding that this only applies to apps and not the actual banks is really starting to get old. Stop spreading misinformation. There is nothing wrong with American” banks. It’s just these third party apps like PayPal CashApp and Venmo that have the paid option for instant transfer instead of waiting 13 business days to transfer. Ridiculous analogy. Poor people don’t even have in game currency. No idea what you’re talking about. I do mobile deposits and it’s there when it’s there Ive never paid to skip a mobile game timer. But if someone sent me money through PayPal or whatever because I needed the money now I skip the three business day wait. If someone sent me the money as a way to pay for services or something more general and I wasnt in a bind I wait it out. Your money doesnt land on your account instantly by default? Strewth! Flaming banks over there charging four bucks just to use your own money instantly? Here in Australia we’ve got Osko and PayID—instant and free 24/7. The only mob that ever tried that stunt here were the ones sneaking EFTPOS fees onto your coffee and even they’ve backed off since COVID. Fair dinkum what a rort! this is a blind comparison. plenty of ppl are living paycheck to paycheck. going just an extra day or 2 of not having that money is a major difference. literally life and death. they are not at all the same ppl that have money to blow on a mobile app For those confused OP is probably trying to get money from a venmo balance or the like to their bank. Instant transfer cost money and standard transfer up to three days is no fee. Wrong. Its a poverty tax for people living paycheck to paycheck. Apparently this is an american thing? First bank transfers are near immediate for local banks here if i had to deposit cash which like why? I usually get the balance notification from my banking app before I leave the bank. Isn’t in game currency” meant to be spent in game” though? Time is money but sometimes we value impatience more. Immediate deposit??? Thats a thing? So we have gone beyond living paycheck to paycheck? People that are pay to win generally arent worried about their bank accounts. Some people may put themselves in financial ruin but most of them simply just have enough money. whats immediate deposit charge? iirc putting money is free pulling money is free unless at atm transfers have charges and then theres dormant and overdraft fees This isnt a thing in Europe. You put money in money is there. The only thing that takes a while are Cheques which to be fair the only people that seem to use them nowadays are the government. Also youll be disappointed to know with things like faster payments we can pay other people pretty much instantly without the use of a third party app. and for free. The American banking system really is just stuck in the dark ages. This is stupid shower thought. I purposely pay to skip ads in games I enjoy because I feel the developers have earned it. [deleted] Patience is a virtue but apparently its also a savings account. A closer analogy I think would be The people who pay the $4 fee for immediate deposit are the same people that pay H&ampR Block hundreds of dollars to get their refund sooner. its actually a loan with hefty fees I’m also confused about this. My pay checks deposites show up in my bank account immediately sometimes even late in the night before payday. I do transfers from one bank to another every month via the bank’s app and I feel like it typically doesn’t take more than a business day and I don’t even have an option to pay to expedite it on either side. If I needed to give money/get money faster I’d just use Paypal which is instant and also free. I know bank transfers are faster in other countries but I really don’t know what you are talking about. I’ve never been offered the option to pay money for a faster deposit or transfer. Not at all. These are very different things... lol weird comparison between entertainment and survival Ah the classic I cant wait for anything club! Paying $4 for immediate deposit? Thats just the adult version of skipping that 30minute wait for your virtual farm to grow. Instant gratification at its finest! You know youre in good company when the folks paying $4 for immediate deposits are the same ones who once sacrificed their hardearned gems to skip a 5minute timer in Candy Crush. Some habits die hard! Its like watching a liveaction version of The Tortoise and the Hare where the hare just keeps paying to fastforward through life. Who needs patience when you can throw money at it? Honestly if these folks spent as much time waiting as they do throwing down that $4 fee theyd be millionaires by now! But hey who needs patience when you can buy instant happiness? I’m also an American and I don’t understand this. My bank does free immediate deposits and transfers. Like everywhere else. I am both the person who pays for immediate deposit and the person who waits 3 days for the free deposit. Depends how badly I want that money No people pay who pay the four dollar fee are flat broke and meet that money. Source Im poor. Or theyre poor people who need the money now before they overdraft. Me a european enjoying legally mandated free immediate transfers You could choose a bank that refunds ATM charges. Revealing how young you are with this one Gen z Banks can move money quickly but prefer to charge for it instead of offering the service… glad I’m going the bitcoin road [deleted] I wait when I can but today I was buying art from my friends and my back account was empty needed it now. Id say yea but there were a few times were Id need the lower amount immediately and had no option to wait like getting towed or paying rent on time Thats such a perfect comparison! It really does feel like the **modernday equivalent of skipping timers**. Post 10 Toasters should have lids. Author Foxfox105 /u/Foxfox105 has flaired this post as a **casual thought**. Casual thoughts should be presented well but may be less unique or less remarkable than . If this post is poorly written unoriginal or rulebreaking please report it. Otherwise please add your comment to the discussion! &ampnbsp This is an automated system. If you have any questions please to message the moderators. OP Guys I just invented the toaster oven. Hmm condensation catching on the lid of the toaster and dripping back down onto the bread Sign me up for two!! But then wouldnt the bread get wet from the moisture? Its called an air fryer and its great for toasting faster than my toaster too I interpreted the lid as being there when your not using the toaster to prevent dust or whatever but reading the comments have made me question my interpretation lol [deleted] But who will be the brave first toaster to start a lid trend? I’m not an engineer but honestly you may be on to something. So long as they can make a design that doesn’t rely on a spring. If an engineer can tell me how this would be a challenge if it is I’d appreciate it. Honestly if someone invented the toaster today it would probably be outlawed and considered a safety hazard. A lot of heat probably escapes out the top. A lid would prevent this Post 11 Everything that has ever happened in existence is explained by something moving from one place to another. Author walphin45 /u/walphin45 has flaired this post as a **casual thought**. Casual thoughts should be presented well but may be less unique or less remarkable than . If this post is poorly written unoriginal or rulebreaking please report it. Otherwise please add your comment to the discussion! &ampnbsp This is an automated system. If you have any questions please to message the moderators. Congratulations youve just discovered Thermodynamics. Two rocks in my yard didn’t hit each other today. That’s only explained by the fact that neither of them moved from one place to another. Even as you sit here right now thats happening in your brain k and na ions moving across neuron membranes for an action potential. Aka nerve impulses Everything that happens and everything that has happened is just a reaction to something. *energy shifting to a place with less energy* but yeah that about right what about quantum fluctuations or tunneling? i guess fluctuations you could see as quantum fields spontaneously moving up or down but that motion is more describing the change of probabilities rather than change of position. Theres a school of thought in physics called Determinism. If you take a snapshot of the universe right now where you measure the position of everything and all of the forces being applied then by the laws of physics you can predict what the universe will look like one increment of time into the future. Every action in the past determines the present and the present determines the future. I said something like this at work today while explaining how we document repairs Everything is mechanical damage if you really think about it [deleted] Pretty much existence is just stuff constantly moving That’s why some believe in the science god The unmoved mover.” So basically you’re saying is the entire universe is just a giant game of floor is lava but with the atoms? this works weather or not your religous or not I always say this is why logistics is the most important trade What about an object that absorbs light and emits heat? Thats more than movement unless a photon being absorbed somehow qualifies as movement as well? Add in what person was involved and you have the trifecta of everything a noun can be so yeah. You can describe every event in history by using all the words weve invented to describe things. It is one of the major reasons we invented words. The expansion of spacetime is not a thing moving its literally space freakn expanding. So basically the universe is just one big game of musical chairs? I knew it! Next time someone asks why I’m late I’ll just say I was caught in a cosmic traffic jam! If everything is just stuff moving around then my socks disappearing into the laundry must be a quantum physics phenomenon! Those little guys are definitely exploring alternate dimensions. Ah so when I can’t find my keys they’re not lost—they’re simply on an epic journey! Maybe they’re off to join the sock rebellion in Narnia. I always knew that life was just a series of unfortunate events caused by things moving around too much. If only gravity had a better sense of direction! So if everything is just movement does that mean my couch potato lifestyle is actually an advanced form of meditation? Because I’m definitely contemplating the great mysteries of existence... from my snack stash! If all existence boils down to movement does that mean my cat’s relentless pursuit of her tail is her way of grasping the meaning of life? Deep thoughts from a fluffy philosopher! Energy transfer molecular diffusion celestial mechanics migration entropy increase...yeah the universe is just motion in fancy coats. Thats such a profound way to look at it! It really simplifies the **complexity of existence** down to something so fundamental. Makes you think about movement in a whole new light. Post 12 There are only three categories of home decor Art plants and stuff that used to serve a purpose books ladders etc…. Author MrSaucyNugg The moderators have reflaired this post as a **casual thought**. Casual thoughts should be presented well but are not required to be unique or exceptional. Please review for more information. &ampnbsp This is an automated system. If you have any questions please to message the moderators. You know youre still allowed to read the books So stuff with purpose stuff with no purpose and inhabitants. Kinda applies to anything Fishtank? Rug? Paint? Curtains? Venetian blinds? A lamp? You could have stopped at art”. Any decor is art by definition. Granted art’s got a pretty broad definition. William Morris a key figure in the Arts and Crafts movement is known for his inspiring and insightful quotes often reflecting his passion for beauty craftsmanship and social justice. One of his most famous quotes is Have nothing in your houses that you do not know to be useful or believe to be beautiful. Furniture? Special lighting? And who the fuck decorates with a ladder??? I’d argue there is a forth one. Stuff that isn’t art but looks cool. For example I have multiple walls of nerf blasters Basically your home is either a gallery a greenhouse or a graveyard for retired objects. Accurate even apartment is just rotating between gallery” greenhouse and vintage yard sale energy” Aint that the truth? My house falls into a fourth category collections from bargain bins Truth! Art plants and repurposed stuff make every space feel alive and personal. Family photos. Clocks. Pillows rugs blankets diplomas. Curtains. Chairs. Tables. Beds. Sofas. Dressers. Shelves. I only have stuff that serves a purpose like a rolling tool chest. My kitchen table is in the living room organizing my new parts while old engine parts line the floor of my dining room. I have a stand mixer that is bright orange. I bought it specifically to be bright orange as part of my kitchen decor. It’s not exclusively art as it has a specific purpose. Its purpose is current not former. So which of the 3 categories would it be part of? And appliances. That fridge isnt art and it certainly isnt some exotic plant and it serves a huge purpose. Rugs. Curtains. That cute ladle hung up on my kitchen. The printed fitted sheet on my box spring. [deleted] Anything ever can fall under serving a purpose Fourth category Whatever the cat hasnt knocked over yet According to my Big Red Dictionary and other sources its appropriate to distinguish decor from furnishings though the *style* of furnishings can still be part of your decor. So to me one aspect of the question is whether a consciously minimalist decor milk crates bare wood shelves trestle tables Walmart computer stands Danish Modern still counts as art. I have my warhammer minis on display as a decoration and I use them often? So true! My house is basically a museum of ‘usedtobe’ items. I call it ‘The Gallery of Forgotten Functionality’! Art check! Plants check! Random ladder I thought would make me look trendy double check! Who knew home decor could be so... vertical? I tried to add a fourth category—‘Things That Are Just Confusing’—but my couch keeps staring at me like it wants to be included too. My home decor philosophy? If it doesn’t fit into one of those three categories it’s probably just an elaborate dust collector! Forget Marie Kondo Im just trying to find the right balance between artistic and what on earth is that doing here? What about furniture? Doesnt that contribute to the decor as well? 2. Functional things Nonfunctional things Man Im glad we invented levitation so we didnt need ladders anymore. Dude come on. Be realistic. If I frame a house nicely its not art. Its me doing my job. A drywaller isnt an artist either. They can be really good but calling it art is silly. If a plumber welds a joint in a pipe is that art to you? How about fastening a toilet down. Is that art? Come on. Art is expressive. Its not just people doing their job. Theres no expression in following building code. Post 13 I wonder if the advent of smartphones have saved more lives or caused more deaths. Author NoFreeWill08 /u/NoFreeWill08 has flaired this post as a **casual thought**. Casual thoughts should be presented well but may be less unique or less remarkable than . If this post is poorly written unoriginal or rulebreaking please report it. Otherwise please add your comment to the discussion! &ampnbsp This is an automated system. If you have any questions please to message the moderators. This is an interesting question. How many people have died driving being distracted by their phone etc... how many people were able to call who would have been far away from a phone. Im gonna say more people have been saved Instant access to medical advice and 911 services has had to have resulted in more lives being saved than before. I just googled how many die from distracted driving and it said around \~3k in 2023 in the US. Now all of those arent going to be solely because of phones but its a place to start. Another study tried to look into phonerelated injuries and found an annual of 37k injuries were phone related. so lets say roughly \~5k deaths due to phones is probably a slight overestimation but still a number to go with. Now the question is how many are saved by smartphones. Lets see if we can find any hint by googling b One article suggest that 137 out of 100k population is saved from emergency calls by phone. Now this is based on an old study so might not be directly related to specifically smartphones but phones in general. But you could probably say that smartphones has made phones generally more prevalent so the number has probably increased and the additional ability to give very specific directions due to GPS/maps features were helpful to survival rate in emergency situations. Lets say that while having a phone in general saved 137 lets say the extra features and popularity of smartphones added another 10ish per 100k to that number so that would be an additional of \~34k saved per year. Theres also other uses that might not directly save lives but extend them such as blood sugar monitoring for diabetes. But I couldnt find any other numbers or directly related statistics on survival related to phones at least from the US. However in Denmark they have an interesting app and program where you can sign up to be a voluntary heartrunner basically if someone has a heart attack nearby someone can press on the app and call everyone nearby to come run asap to either bring a defibrillator or assist with emergency CPR. They estimated that this had quadrupled the amount of people who survived from heart attacks outside of a hospital. They estimated roughly 13 heart attacks happen per day in Denmark and the survival rate rose from 4% to 16% since 2001. Looking at numbers in the US it seems that currently they estimate roughly 350k heart attacks per year with a survival rate of around 910%. If the danish initiative could be widely adopted in the US and lets ignore the quadrupled but we could just raise the survivalrate to around 1516% so another 57%. That would account for around 1725k more people survive from cardiac arrests b Definitely saved more lotta people saved their own lives by looking up some symptom especially in poorer countries where people have access to cellphones but not family doctors Or a new parent quickly googling if X or Y is safe for a 6 month old. Or a kid watching someone get mauled by an animal on tiktok so they learn that even cows/horses are dangerous. I bet most ppl have avoided some awful outcome by googling it first Smartphones go hand in hand with social media which goes hand in hand with depression and suicide. So... I’d have to guess it hasn’t changed a *huge* amount it’s just shifted *how* you die. With a cellphone in your hand you can eat it in a myriad of ways all related to distraction. You can be stalked. You can lunge for a falling phone and [insert new method here]. But in the past you had other things in your hands guns knives hammers axes and yeah those probably just killed you by infection if you didn’t immediately sever an artery or blow your head off but that’s like saying you were killed by the fall after chasing your phone into the Grand Canyon. Probably caused more deaths via distractions. A normal cellphone can do 911 just as well as smartphone. If I had to guess I’d say caused more deaths. So many variables to consider though. Great question! Cell phones have definetly save tons of lives but smartphones? Caused more deaths. Having a portable phone has saved more lives. Its the ability to call thats helped not the capabilities of the phone that matter. [deleted] Definitely both it’s all about how we use them With new inventions comes new problems and new solutions I would say being able to use the internet to access information regarding health has saved many lives but other things change around that It’s probably a mix of both but the longterm impact depends on how we use them. It’s definitely caused a boom in depression rates Interesting question. I dont know but I have an experience of like to share. Preface dont use your phone while driving. Its dangerous and wrong Now I use Pandora for music. I start that app up when I start my gps. It never fails... Never fails... That I need to press a button for some reason after starting it all up and usually it happens down the road a bit. Maybe it stops abruptly or maybe I forgot the pick a different station I know my fault. the thing is apps hijack the fuck out of the phone. Cant just press play. I have to answer questions with buttons first. Do I want to listen ad free? No mofo Im listening already and you are fucking with me. Do I want to connect to another Bluetooth device? Jesus Christ no Im already listening and you stopped. The point is.... Ji just wanna turn the volume up and I damn cant without taking a fucking exam. Look tie answer is clearly to sit in the car for 10 minutes setting up a God damn selection of music so in an drive safely. Right? Bullshit. Just because my unemployed and broke ass refuses to pay for your stupid premium version doesn mean I want to take a test not does it mean I deserve to spend an unnecessary amount of time turning you on. They know were going to attempt to do this shit while driving because were stupid. Yes... I am stupid for fucking with my phone while driving. I am wrong. But damn I could turn the volume up without taking my eyes off the road if you didnt put soany obaticals in the way. it would depend on direct vs indirect usage. direct usage theyve saved way more lives. indirectly though there is a correlation between smartphone ownership per capita and large scale violent crimes many being catalyzed by instances of cyberbullying and extremist propaganda. I think smartphones are great the big problem is social media Cellphones in general? I think save lives because of easier access to call emergency services. Smartphones? Taken more. More to distract you and people are addicted to them. Just my take. Finding it interesting that no one has mentioned the many African/Chinese/South American violent slave driving and corrupt mining operations that definitely negatively contribute to deaths in order to actually manufacture electronics. While Smartphones have connected people for the two past decades I think it’s unlikely to have really saved” more lives than have caused deaths. Theres a layer here that no one else has really addressed. And thats how mobile smart devices have changed our society overall. In America at least smartphones and the social media they so readily access has led to a population of youth and middleaged whore easily misled gaslit nihilistic and hyperindividualist polarized and overall hateful. They have reduced attention spans poorer reading comprehension inability to verbally articulate inability to empathize and an inability to even take care of themselves and instead just order food from an app. Theyre literally taking out loans to pay for sandwiches. If that downward trajectory of the most militarily and economically powerful nation on earth isnt going to end a lot of lives earlier that wouldve otherwise flourished for longer I dont know what would. They have been the cause of the injuries that would only have occurred with the involvement of a smartphone directly. The same way that one particular type of chemical could only have caused the injuries in history whereby it was directly involved in that case. It depends on how deep you go. Calling for help is a lot easier now. I remember getting a first cell phone simply for safety on jr high ski trips. But if you go all the way to how much stress does having constant access to social media and how easy it is to be extremely lazy cardiovascular death may easily out weight any benefits. Short term probably more lives saved Long term it will be more deaths Latest evidence and research shows smartphones are causing severe mental illness. Procreation causes death which means antinatalism is the real way to save lives. Smartphones saving lives one emergency call at a time while simultaneously creating a whole new sport called Texting and Walking. Who knew dodging lampposts could be so thrilling? I guess it depends on whether youre talking about the lives saved by GPS or the ones lost to oops I didn’t see that car coming because I was too busy scrolling! Smartphones keeping us connected and entertained while we attempt to cross the street without looking up! It’s like a liveaction version of Frogger out there! They say smartphones have saved millions but have you seen how many people are still trying to take selfies with wild animals? Nature is definitely not impressed! Social media itself have frequently results in people ending their own life Traffic deaths have doubled since they came out. Texting &amp driving I’m sure has killed more I wonder if this sub will ever be worth reading again. Its job isn’t to do either. It’s a productivity device. How many hours does it save or dollars or whatever metric? Automobiles kill tens of thousands of people. Certainly save lots by rushing to hospital and providing faster emergency response. But like the phone it’s a productivity device. If you had the same question about air bags or seat belts then there’d be a real problem. Post 14 The immediate practical society reply when immortality is achieved would be a chaotic world crisis related to the pension assets. Author lelorang /u/lelorang has flaired this post as a **speculation**. Speculations should prompt people to consider interesting premises that cannot be reliably verified or falsified. If this post is poorly written unoriginal or rulebreaking please report it. Otherwise please add your comment to the discussion! &ampnbsp This is an automated system. If you have any questions please to message the moderators. If humans suddenly found a way to be immortal then the game of life will never end! That means people will have to keep working and never retire. So aside from the existing seniors who already have a pension younger folks probably won’t be able to receive it anymore someday. No it wouldn’t. Most human interaction is driven by scarcity. The most scarce resource is ultimately time. If no humans died the next issue would be non renewable resource scarcity energy and land. Not pension assets because we would have infinite time to work even if the work you’re doing isn’t lucrative you could hypothetically work for 1 cent an hour until you could retire. Even now in the US where the quality of life is exponentially higher we just move onto to other desires and act like those are existential crisis. Dont worry. Only the super rich will be able to afford immortality. If you live forever they will make you work forever. That first hundred years when people realized that infinite compound interest is a fantasy that centuralizes power to singular individuals will be tough for most. That assumes it would be made available to everyone. It would definitely be quite expensive at least at first for its value to the consumer if not the resources that went into developing it. Only the very rich would have it at first. And I expect they would seek to keep it to themselves and would quite likely have the power to do so making themselves only more powerful and never giving us relief from their tyranny. Imagine something like Altered Carbon. This is one of the things wrong with capitalism. Counterpoint If people dont die they wont discount future cash flows as heavily drastically raising the net present value of pension assets. Its interesting how some sci fi concepts change depending on which order they are invented in. If we gto immortality tomorrow it would be chaos and we would all burn alive on earth in the climate apocalypse. But if we invented FTL drives and had the ability to explore space and create homes on other planets and THEN invent immortality? Utopia. Makes sense. But what’s the economics of achieving said immortality? It could be priced at near the amount of your pension scheme per pax.. I imagine assassins would be a big business where you can live forever but a bullet would still kill you If this occurred… there would be thousands if not millions of Highlanders. I suppose the new goal will be getting to forever money by having enough invested that the growth/dividends are equal to or greater than my future spending and inflation such that I can live on it. Or Pension becomes a holiday fund and I take more time off work to live for a bit and then return to work when I run out. We should see the love death and robots episode on this topic. I believe it’s in season two and it is harrowing. People here are commenting that they will make you work forever” as if that is inherently evil? It only would be if it was very exploitative. But just working in general? Well yeah someone has to keep the world running and just because you’re immortal doesn’t mean everyone else is going to do everything for you. THere would be enormous consequences. What about jobs? Nobody is dying off and allowing younger people to move up any more. What about birth rate? It becomes illegal to have children because the world is already full..however a small fraction of immortals die every year so we need a FEW children...so now we have child lottery. If you win you are allowed to have a child. What about education? No more schools? So no more teachers either? Lifelong pensions when nobody dies would be a problem as you say. What about medicine and medical research? Why bother if nobody is dying? What about housing? Old people arent dying off and their houses arent appearing on the market...of course theres a whole lot LESS new people because of the child lottery... Wait but if everyone is immortal why bother working for food shelter etc.? Just frolick in the fields till the end of times be happy idk I read that title three times and it still makes no sense. [deleted] Nah. No pension if you can continue to procure food work without decay. You dont need to invest to stockpile resources to provide food/shelter in your elder years if there are none. Youd be able to survive without investments. Instead youd likely save for extended vacations regularly. Like nine years working and a year off. Well no the first response will be an increase in murder. If immortality was achieved for everyone they would find a way to keep you working and keep everyone from doing whatever they wanted so nothing would really change One factor that needs to be considered is agingwill we still be youthful enough that we will continue to work indefinitely or will we be too aged to work? Immediate moral conundrum arises too. Since everyone is immortal what happens to the people that will need life long care those who are fragile and unable to work those with dementia or Alzheimer’s. Just because we are immortal does not mean those illnesses are gone at least not for those who already have them. What are we doing with them do we keep them around to suffer for eternity in that state. What about those who suddenly go into auch a state due to an injury accident sickness or whatever. Is society not on the hook for them forever are we going to let people suffer forever? Do we now get the right to end our life since currently that’s not the case. Cute that you think that you will be able to afford it. I just saw a kurzgesagt video on the future of the universe earlier today. Do you really want to sit and watch as stars fade out and eventually turn into iron through quantum tunneling over an unimaginably long time period? Nope. You think anyone who lives forever cant find a way to become wealthy? People would work until the figured it out. If immortality happens people will slowly die because of cumulative minor injuries Absolutely pension systems would collapse overnight. They were never built to support people living forever just longer Since it would probably be something only the very wealthy could get into at first the US would probably pass laws that undergoing elective immortality procedures would cause any person who wasnt a senior government official to immediately forfeit any future pension or Social Security payments. 401K and similar plans would be fine until they run out. Rich people would just trust their investments to hold. There would be various crises if immortality was achieved but pensions wouldn’t be a significant one. What does life in prison look like if you are immortal ? Nah theyd ban it and billionaires would still practice it in secret. Whoever thinks immortality would be accessible to the common man forgets how lucrative the death birth and child products industries are. What kind of immortality are we talking here? Agelessness? Eternal youth? Indefinitely prolonged elderly life stage? Why do people assume this means you will never retire? If aging is actually solved things would continue like normal but in cycles where you spend some time working and some time retired. That seems fair to me. lol yeah suddenly everyone’s gotta pay out forever pensions would freak out big time. Not necissarily pensions could be paid out up to the average life expectancy used in the determination of your benefits at which point they would stop and you would return to work to start earning another retirement break. There would need to be a bit of reorganising how peoples records are managed as the pensions would now need an end date but all said and done we wouldnt need much drastic change to how pensions are calculated or paid. What makes you think it would be shared with the masses? Highranking political and business leaders would disseminate this immortality treatment within themselves first engineer wars and strife to eliminate most people on the planet and live in the Garden of Eden themselves while the servants live in fascism Read/Watch more scifi. Original series Star Trek The Mark of Gideon Season 3 Episode 16 I recommend NOT looking it up but just watch the episode. Otherwise the whole plot of the episode is ruined. Watch it with a fresh mind! Its a mystery story. Pensions would not matter because anyone on a pension would not get access to immortality. That would be reserved for the rulers and the workers have to die because otherwise they may revolt. Unless some kind of workless society like Star Trek comes about. Highly recommend Peter F. Hamilton for Sci Fi related to the implications of immortality the dude loves playing with that concept. has some math on it.... Only” about two thousand years which is thirty times longer than today for 50% to have died and usually to something violent as accidents/murder/war/weather. The longest lived might make it to 10000 if they beat the statistics. Trying to understand an abstract concept from rational thought is already a contradiction in itself. You cannot give a mortal answer to immortality and its consequences. True! Immortality would totally upend pensions and cause serious chaos. You mean I have to work for the rest of time itself? Whether its greatly increased lifespan or real immortality its funny that all yall think that it will be available for the masses. I dont think pensions would be a thing anymore if people could just work indefinitely Pensions that pay out annuities based upon how much you pay in could still exist. Once your contributions appreciate to a few/several million you could live indefinitely off of a modest return on that investment. **when** immortality **is** achieved Yeah sure Post 15 Vampires will always test positive on the stool test for colon cancer. Author zav3rmd /u/zav3rmd has flaired this post as a **casual thought**. Casual thoughts should be presented well but may be less unique or less remarkable than . If this post is poorly written unoriginal or rulebreaking please report it. Otherwise please add your comment to the discussion! &ampnbsp This is an automated system. If you have any questions please to message the moderators. Imagine a vampire 1 deciding to see a doctor in the first place given their near immortality 2 finding a doctors office that takes patients at night 3 finding a doctor incompetent enough to not notice that the patient has no vital signs but also concerned enough to do a colon cancer screening Wait so do vampires just shit blood all the time? Wtf there goes the romance I’m pretty sure they test for more than just blood in the stool. Seriously man people with hemorrhoids don’t automatically test positive for cancer. If youre a vampire getting a human stool test done youve made a series of really bad decisions... This is highly dependent on the hypothetical biology of a fictional creature with hundreds of distinct interpretations ranging from the esoteric and supernatural to the exceptional but mundane. I think most interpretations for vampires have them not able to eat or digest food. If they absorb the blood as sustenance there wouldnt be stool to test. Who says vampires poop or have a functional GI tract? A cursory search on the internet resoundingly shows that vampires dont poop. No. For one vampires drink blood they don’t boof it. Second blood in stool is not a positive test for colon cancer. It means you should get tested for colon cancer if it’s not apparent why it’s there. I dont think theyd produce a stool sample i would like to know the reason but...let it be Fun fact a large percentage of your poop is broken down used up red blood cells. One of the main reasons it’s brown usually is because of the oxidized iron from your blood. Does it test for iron in the poo or something? [deleted] Wouldnt this suggest were all vampires if we can all show some sign of cancer using tumor marker tests since they look for chemical or proteins found in cancer but doesnt actually suggest a person has tested positive fo cancer? Vampires definitely have some serious diet restrictions no wonder they never show up on tests. Does something like Cologuard only test for fecal blood? Such tests used to be known as Faecal Occult Blood Tests. Coincidence? I think not. Makes sense you can’t drink blood for centuries without raising some red flags in the lab work Haha thats a darkly humorous and clever thought! Definitely a unique take on a vampires potential health challenges. Thats why stool sample tests are not reliable. You never see an overweight vampire proving that the Atkins diet works... /s I actually work for that company. One of the things we look for is blood in stool but it’s not the only thing we look for. I’m in a non technical role so I can’t really say what exactly we’re looking for but there’s several factors that go in a positive result. Also since the bloods gone through the whole digestive system I’m not sure if it’s would show up on the test. Post 16 An anteater ends more lives in a single meal than a lion does in its whole lifetime. Author bajadasaurus234 /u/bajadasaurus234 has flaired this post as a **musing**. Musings are expected to be highquality and thoughtprovoking but not necessarily as unique as . If this post is poorly written unoriginal or rulebreaking please report it. Otherwise please add your comment to the discussion! &ampnbsp This is an automated system. If you have any questions please to message the moderators. All the billions of singlecelled organisms youve eaten are going to haunt you in your dreams tonight for forgetting about them. Forget giant apes or radioactive lizards an aardvark kaiju would be *terrifying*. Damn what is up about anteaters today . Just saw its photo a couple posts above this one Somewhere out there an ant prophet is warning colonies about the tongue of doom — and no one listens. Ants are the most studious of foods after mycelium Anteaters the silent serial killers of the animal kingdom. Its tricky for the single meal case though... lions *also* inevitably eat a lot of parasites insects etc. etc. in the process of their lifetime. And autocorrect made that ant lol whats a single meal for an anteater anyway? They visit ~200 nests a day to get their ~35000 insects or around 175/nest. If one nest is a single meal then the shower thought is just trivially false. I was gonna go to bed in 5 minutes wtf now youve got me thinking. Ants are great if youre really hungry and want to eat two thousand of something. So I think about veganism for the same reason. I grew up on a ranch and worked on farms so I know how much pesticide is used animal control pest control and accidental animal deaths during harvest etc. Meanwhile one steer will more than feed me for a year. That means comparably with an omnivorous diet I have a smaller net loss of life than someone who solely subsists on a vegan diet. Something to be said for balance I suppose. Damn nature really said don’t judge by size This is why I prefer Red Lobster’s all you can eat shrimp over lobsterfest. It’s like a mini genocide with every meal. [deleted] Who knew ants were living in constant danger from a breakfast hero? [deleted] Man I once had an ant farm. Them fellas didnt grow shit Ants have to be naturally one of the most nutritious sources of food on the planet per square inch of meat… Shhhh... dont tell the vegans that their diet tortures thousands of poor insects to death with organic or artificial nerve toxins unless maybe theyre growing all their own food and handpicking off the aphids to release in a field. You shouldnt rank lives but this is a situation in which it might make sense. This isnt an elephant or an ape and a human. Ants presumably have to possess some level of consciousness but it is on a significantly lower level. Much much lower. A random mouse is just like me before it is just like an ant. I wouldnt normally rank lives and I do not assume that there are souls [deleted] Individual ants arent alive though An ant colony is a single organism whose most notable characteristic is that its body isnt all physically connected together Post 17 Once you find a 4 leaf clover the chance of finding another increases. Author Drink15 /u/Drink15 has flaired this post as a **casual thought**. Casual thoughts should be presented well but may be less unique or less remarkable than . If this post is poorly written unoriginal or rulebreaking please report it. Otherwise please add your comment to the discussion! &ampnbsp This is an automated system. If you have any questions please to message the moderators. I concur. I’ve never found one but I know people that have found multiple. And on my part it wasn’t from a lack of trying. But it’s been years since ive searched. They grow in certain conditions so if conditions are right for 1 there are probably more. I lived in a place where I found a few one year and then a few years later found 34 more in the same place. Plus you’re more lucky now! You seem to think finding a 4leaf clover is mostly luck. This is a common misconception. Its actually about 10% luck 20% skill 15% concentrated power of will 5% pleasure 50% pain and 100% reason to remember the name Checks out. Your chance of finding _another_ four leaf clover is zero until you find the first one. How do you figure that? wouldnt it be the other way that there is one less to be found now? And by picking it you lower the chance of ever seeing one again by removing it from the gene pool If a patch has one it will probably have more. But if it doesnt it never will. Source I was sort of obsessed with clovers as a kid. The most leaves I ever found on one was 27. In that patch 3 leaves were rare. All were at least 4 and most were more. Assuming the mutation is random this is a great example of the gamblers fallacy! Same with rabbits feet. Find one and there are usually another 3 nearby. That’s because now you’re statistically cursed to keep looking forever Guess its more about luck in finding the clover rather than the luck it gives! I found a ton in my yard in Texas as a kid! They grew in a large crop of mostly three leafs. When I was a kid I never stopped until I found a 7leaf clover. 4s and 5s were common but searching for 6s and 7s took some time. Yeah I can confirm that it definitely seems to be true. Source https//www.reddit.com/r/mildlyinteresting/s/7msBWJz2Pu 4 leaf clovers are widely considered symbols of good luck. So finding one may increase the luck of finding another. Disclaimer for those that need it This isn’t meant to be literal and obviously luck is not scientifically proven. Odds will not actually increase and your experience may vary. [deleted] luck is when preparation meets opportunity. Also the clover probably feels pretty unlucky right now Ive found one. One in my entire life. A high school friend used to find three walking across his yard. I always wondered what was different about his mind I have so many in my backyard can usually find a 4 leaf in about 2 minutes of looking. I had gone the first 35 years of my life watching others find one and never personally finding one until last year. Then in that same patch I found roughly 12 four leafed clovers and one 6 leafed clover! Dry spell that last two years though I think I used up my life’s worth of finding them in one day Neighbors yard had more 4+ leaf clovers than non one time In reality no. In lala land where magic is real it would be. But we live here in reality. We had a patch right outside our married students dorm in college that regularly produced 4 leaf clovers. A lot. Were talking about 12 per week found 3 5 leaf clovers and a single 6 leaf clover. We have one of them saved in a book somewhere. I think its one of the 5 leaf ones. This was all in an area about 2ftx2ft. We jokingly mentioned it to the front desk one day while talking about lucky things. Within 2 days the groundskeeper had 2 guys come out and use weedeaters and shovels to turn the entire area to lightly packed dirt. No more fancy clovers after that just the same clovers growing everywhere on the property unmolested. Years ago I went out camping up by Yosemite. I was out camping with some friends. We went for a walk to a lake near by. We were a bit tired and we sat down on a bench to catch our breath on the trail. As we were sitting there the father and son were walking towards us. And no kidding the kid was like 10 feet away from us and he was like OMG! He ran towards us and literally right next to where my foot was a 4 leafed clover! This kids was so excited and I was just in awe! Lil dude must be living his luckiest life right now. While in the mental hospital as a kid i was looking at clovers next to the hospital’s basketball court and i found FIVE four leaf clovers. Like five individually. I handed them out to other patients How many do you estimate are on the planet? The superstitious person says you got lucky. The Bayesian statistician says that’s just math Thats such a cool thought! Its like good luck attracts more good luck. are we talking about the girl with the journal who had 5600? Not if you genetically modify every clover you homegrow My sister had the knack for finding 4 leaf clovers. She would find multiples all the time. Her husband worked a dangerous job and wore a 4 leaf clover for luck. When the clover would wilt she would just go and find another no problem. I have only found two in my life. I gave them both away. One to someone I know and another to a random person. Does anyone else do that? Last week i found like five all right next to each other and they were huge and two had five leaves. They are anything but uncommon around me We could prove if luck exists or not with a simple study. Find a person to regularly search for four leaf clovers. They will get more four leaf clovers than most other people and if their four leaf clover gain rises exponentially then luck exists I find several every year 3 so far this spring The only time I ever found a four leaf clover was in an Elephant Sanctuary in Laos and then I found 2. Never again never before and not for lack of trying. True it’s like your eyes get trained to spot them luck sharpens focus My grandma has a gift for finding 4 leaf clovers. As kids my sister and I would be on our hands and knees looking at clovers and she would stand beside us and point them out to us haha Makes sense once you find one you know what to look for and there might be more in the same patch. This is not how finite probability works at all. But the comments in agreement are fun. My wife and i recently found 150ish in one outing. She is the one that can find them but once in the zone I can help. Edit she uses them for Art I found one once and have never found another I find them a lot. I also go looking a lot. Kind of a hobby of mine. I like to dry them and give them away. Have also sold some. Ive probably found hundreds over the years. Most Ive found in one day was about 12. Ive also found many 5leaf clovers and a few 6leaf clovers. Ive had people seriously ask me if Im a fairy. All I am is wellpracticed at it and observant. I found one ON Saint Patrick’s Day. Beat that You will only find one if you look...Ive found two...it is a quite common mutation. You literally overlook them. I found tons as a kid in my greatuncles garden. Wed go there every year for a big family BBQ and Id spent most of my time hunting for them. My grandpa still has a bunch of them dried between some books. So there is a point where you reach 100% success rate and whatever you pick will be a 4 leaf clover. It took me a minute to realize you were talking about the luck aspect of it... I found one about 40 years and I’m still always on the lookout for my second one. The only time I ever found one I found a whole bunch. I think there must be cases where they have reproduced and spread whatever 4leaf” gene they have. I gave it after counting about a dozen but haven’t seen any bed or since I have NEVER seen a four leaved clover in real life Did you get this from that persons thread who posted their clover collection? Okay but my mom has this weird ability to just look at the ground and find them… like we will be walking around somewhere grassy and she’ll just stop and pick one up.. and then another one and another one.. she’ll have like five or six before I even manage to spot one.. that inevitably turns out to only have three leaves haha. It’s like life. Once you spot one opportunity you start noticing more of them everywhere. Theyre not rare. go find someones lawn with clover and youll see them everywhere. in fact theyre quite common. Doesnt that mean eventually itll get to the point where ALL clovers you find will be fourleafed? In my experience if theres one there probably a lot of them. If I recall correctly my record is finding 58 in one day. That includes finding multiple five and six lead clovere and one tiny seven leaf clover. I was in a field with a now departed friend of mine who found a similar amount of four leaf clovers. I picked so many that day that I decided to just not pick them anymore. I still find it to be kind of a pleasant meditative activity. That would explain why there are people who have ten of them while Ive never seen one in my life. I have a very boring life Ive counted quite a number of clovers over the years. If you walk up to a 1 square foot patch of clovers theres bound to be at least one 4 leaf in there. Ive found dozens of 4 leaf clovers the hard ones are the 5 and 6 leaf and Ive yet to find a 7 Yeah it’s like the clover is secretly signaling you’re part of some exclusive club. Suddenly the luck just *knows* you’re coming. That explains why I found 20+ in about an hour as a child is this like how people who have been struck by lightning once are more likely to get stuck again compared to those who haven’t been struck because the group of people who have been struck is more heavily biased to those who are more commonly in lightningprone areas? True if you live near a Soviet nuclear reactor Found hundreds over the years. One year when I was really intentional about it I found a 7 leaf clover which was both cool and a mutant freak of a clover. So you’re telling me that luck multiplies if you get lucky now you’re more likely to be lucky in the future? I mean I guess that’s how the world works now days This is known as the Frequency illusion or the Baader–Meinhof phenomenon. One common way this is expressed is that you see more of your own vehicle in public after you purchased it. no not like GTA P https//en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Frequency_illusion It is a cognitive bias in which a person notices a specific concept word or product more frequently after recently becoming aware of it. I’m starting to realize I either have good eyesight or I am just lucky. I find one at least every year if not multiple. But I always look for them in my yard and neighborhood. My wife even makes fun of me for it but it’s fun. And I find them easy to find. I have found around 50. Not in the same place at all many different places also a 5 and a 6. But never a 2 The more times you look and change your kind is statistically increasing your odds of finding one to begin with. A 50/50 becomes a 80/20 I get the luck joke but its actually true! There appear to be environmental conditions that favor 4leaf or even 5leaf so if you find one youre more likely to find another. I found my first one a few weeks ago and found my second one minutes later. I can confirm This is *somewhat* correct. In reality as soon as you lose possession of your four leaf clover all the luck from it goes with it. Thats why Ive been eating every one I got since I was a small child because that way the luck is digested into your system and sticks with you for life. Ive found and eaten probably 40+ in my life so far. If you were to find a 5 leaf clover would it help you find a 4 leaf clover to find a 2 leaf clover to find a 1 leaf clover My parents yard is FULL of 4 leaf clovers. I like to joke its because when they had the house built they used horse poop from the farm down the street as fertilizer for the yard when they were trying to get the grass to grow back lol Cause horse poop horse shoes are supposedly lucky I have never actually found one nor seen it physically. They grow with abundance next to Three Mile Island! The math does not check out. Chances will always decrease. Post 18 Little orphan Annie has red hair. Miss Hannigan has red hair. Red hair is hereditary. Miss Hannigan had the other half of Annies locket which Annie understood to be held by her parents. Could she be Annies mother? Author excess_inquisitivity /u/excess_inquisitivity has flaired this post as a **speculation**. Speculations should prompt people to consider interesting premises that cannot be reliably verified or falsified. If this post is poorly written unoriginal or rulebreaking please report it. Otherwise please add your comment to the discussion! &ampnbsp This is an automated system. If you have any questions please to message the moderators. Its been a while since I watched this so I could be missing something but not really. 1. She has a song about how she hates children the reason she has the locket is because she runs the orphanage. 2. Her biological parents are revealed to have already passed and theres probably a lot of people with red hair in New York. I guess she could have been her mother. It would have made an interesting reveal at the end though. In Miss Hannigans song Little Girls she implies that shes still a virgin Im an ordinary woman with feelings. Id like a man to nibble on my ear. But Ill admit no man has bit. So how come Im the Mother of the Year? Also when she searches for the other half of locket for her brothers scheme she tells him that Annies parents were killed in a fire. Also while Hannigan has been played by redheads or styled as red headed she’s not canonically a redhead. It varies from production to production. Uh no. Wouldn’t make a lot of sense. The irony is more so that she runs an orphanage and hates children. The hair in a locket was more so a plot construct to get money from Daddy Warbucks ironic name eh and that with the evidence they provide are able to prove to be Annie’s parents”. My grandfathers sister was s wife. Leonard Starr wrote the comic strip Little Orphan Annie for the newspaper. Along with Mary Perkins and also helped create the Thundercats. I can say canonically that Miss Hannigan is NOT her mother. I have a similar theory about Fireman Sam. Norman Price and Fireman Sam are the only rangas in Pontypandy. Norman Price is an only child to a single mother and Sam is forever parenting his bastard child from a distance and rescuing him when needed. Plot twist Miss Hannigan *is* the mother… and was just trying to avoid the daycare bills. I have no idea whats everyone and op talking about Back in the 30’s neighborhoods were segregated with the Irish and Italians occupying different parts of the city. Maybe that’s it? [deleted] Post 19 If you sleep 5 hours per night and die at age 75 youll still have spent just as many years awake as a person who sleeps 8 hours per night and dies at age 89. Author odbal The moderators have reflaired this post as a **casual thought**. Casual thoughts should be presented well but are not required to be unique or exceptional. Please review for more information. &ampnbsp This is an automated system. If you have any questions please to message the moderators. yes but you physically dont live that time as well as the other guy lack of sleep is really bad for your health What happens if you sleep with one or both eyes open? How many years does that add? Learning at a young age that if you sleep the recommended 8 hours per night and live to be 75 you will have slept away 25 years if your life is what I believe kicked off my lifelong battle with insomnia. I dont consider sleeping time lost though. I have very interesting dreams. \*Does some calculations to get that both spend around 59.3 years awake Though realistically the former person would at some point need to sleep less than 5 hours regularly if they were to have 5 hours of sleep on average over their lifetime in order to counteract how sleep times are longer on average the younger you are. For me that would be a nightmare of exhaustion every day. Lets only count hours awake and not exhausted please I think your count will come out quite differently. I sleep just 5 hours a night. But the quality of a number of my wakeful hours is a lot lower than yours. Yeah? Well those 75 years would be ABSOLUTE FUCKING HELL. Id rather just die. They recently isolated the genes of people who only need &lt1 hours of sleep a night. If we could push that gene editing out to the general population itd effectively increase quality years of awake life by 25%? Id be the biggest breakthrough in health science since penicillin. I think unfortunately since that would require sustained gene editing which we seem to be morally allergic to its a breakthrough that wont happen any time soon. I’d choose 8 hrs and dying at 89 every time. Sleep is nice. Dreaming is fun. Yeah but your quality of life will be way worse. My Dad cut his sleep down to 5 hours. Then he broke both his legs in a ski accident. The habituated shorter sleep meant his body couldn’t cope with the leg trauma and he developed a rare form of cancer that’s usually found in 70+ yearolds. He was mid 40’s. GET YOUR NEEDED SLEEP EVERYONE. If you’re keen on this idea cut it down to 7 hours not 5. Nothing more annoying than those dudebros bragging about how little sleep they get and then you see them just DRAGGING ASS cause they are so fucking wired and tired and fucked up all day long that they are useless. Yea great use of your time there. Less sleep has also been shown to cause irreversible brain degeneration. Good luck! How is this a shower thought i wouldnt be able to process all this information without a calculator Probably healthier though. Sleep is important. Sleep is one of the greatest pleasures in life Guess I’ve been stealing hours from my sleep debt this whole time—no wonder I’m always tired. But youll have been cranky and tired your whole life therefore having better quality of.... Wait a second Getting only 5 hours of sleep a day sounds agonizing. Never fully rested no energy and probably getting sick all the time Those will be 75 long fuckin years man. Not in a good way Whatever. Sleeping is more fun. Last night in my dream I could literally fly. Today at work a feeding tube exploded on me and a patient threatened to sue me for... nothing. I also couldnt fly. Im almost dead after a couple nights of 5 hours at only 27 I wouldnt make it past 30 let alone up to 75... unless you got a calc in there with you that aint a thought you had in the shower. calc is short for calculator Ok but Im not sure calculators are allowed in showers yeah crazy how less sleep shortens life but keeps awake time similar still sleep’s key for feeling good while awake You probably cant live to 75 on 5 hours sleep Rather have the three extra hours of sleep and experience more unique days. Not like much is happening from 25am anyway. Kramer had this idea in a Seinfeld episode. Ended up in the East River Has anyone tracked this? Maybe we need to stop thinking about how many years we live but maybe we have a finite amount of sleep or awake time? Sleep more and live longer. Maybe its fingernails? You only get 12 feet of fingernails you die once you run out! Puffy face high cortisol increased hunger high body fat low muscle mass brain fog but you save time” yeah what a deal Sleep is when your short term memories move to long term. Do those moments times years really matter if you cant remember them? Yeah but youll spend 14 years less time asleep. Imagine the awesome dreams and bodily repair youd miss out on. True but the 89 year old probably felt way better during those waking hours. Sleep isn’t just about time it’s about energy focus and health. Quality quantity when it comes to being alive not just awake. Dude I dont wanna sleep for five hours! Just let me sleep until the alarm goes off. Please for the love of fuck! Theres no reason for me to wake up at four in the fucking morning! Man thinks hes making it to 75 only sleeping 5 hours a night. Ha! Fun fact I dont sleep for more than 4 hours uninterrupted. So....and thats on anxiety and insomnia. Me 4 hours a night die at 50. Just a few months left. Ticktock ticktock. Sleep is precious so hope you’re catching the good kind of rest every night. No way you calculated that while taking a shower Theres a sweet spot where you have the right amount of sleep. Too much and you are more likely to have a stroke and die young. I have some friends who did meth for a long time. My two buds who are both clean now for many years went around eight months where there was 24 instances of sleep between the two of them and they never slept at the same time. They both made it to work every day one made it to church with his family every Sunday but they were the sketchiest mfs ever and the one who went to church was worse at trying to get a sentence out than Ozzy Osborne. When they had time off they would go skateboarding for 23 days at a time. They did meth for around 20 years. By the time they were both in their 40s they had been awake as long as some people who die of old age. Most years L would eat and sleep on Wednesdays and M would sleep a couple nights a week and eat maybe three or four times a week they drank gallons upon gallons of coffee along with the meth. They are now both 50+ fat and married and drug free besides weed coffee and beer. [deleted] I have never thought of this and probably won’t think of it again. My issue with sleep is that I have to physically tell” my brain it’s time for bed. Once all the devices are off or my book is down or I try to stop hyper focusing on something I’m out like a light I’ll take more sleep and 14 more years alive Not really relevant but I was on a date with a guy a few months ago and shared my sleep schedule completely irregular and erratic bc reasons and he said sounds like youll only live until 70 as a casual offhand remark before changing the subject. I still think about it bc wtf Yeah until you fall asleep on a woman and her friends throw you into the Hudson River because they think you just died ...and from what Ive heard that might be why youd die early. The future gets more interesting each year Id like to live to see as much of it as possible. Except sleeping is the best part of life so why would ypu want to do that? ill take 9 hours and 75 please. most of my relatives were miserable in their 80s and 90s. And those extra 9 years you are OLD or dead. Yeah but sleeping 5 hours a might for years on end leads to a shitty waking experience. Quality over quantity my friend. Alright then give me 9 hours. As a sleep deprived dad I crave that quickened permasleep. 9PF1bFKhVZWqaqSp3LHYunEUG4iLMypZDoeV9Jf4pump Shower thoughts 9PF1bFKhVZWqaqSp3LHYunEUG4iLMypZDoeV9Jf4pump If I sleep 12 hrs can I die at 120 of some shit? Dreams are pretty cool tbf Interesting way to look at it quality over quantity in life and sleep! awake but not well rested. sleep is one of lifes most wonderful gifts. Cherish it! Thats a really interesting way to look at it! Its true when you do the math those extra years of sleep can really add up. It highlights how much of our lives we spend in different states and how seemingly small daily habits can have a big impact over the long term. Its a great reminder to make the most of both our waking and sleeping hours! You can do that kind of math in the shower? For 12 years I would sleep 36hr a night. Sometimes 20min nap lunch. For about 4 yrs Then I started sleeping 1014hrs awake for 30. Now I sleep 612 sometimes longer. Every night. Being awake more doesn’t mean living better. 5 hours of sleep = more time tired. Choose quality over just quantity Suddenly 8 hours of sleep doesnt feel so wasteful True! It’s about awake time but health and sleep quality matter too. Man is doing full on math equations in the showerr Dope. When you get to 75 tell me if you made the right choice when you can’t see your grandkids grow up. Ok but I like to see progress and change and how are my kids doing. My time here will be at least more about meaningful experience like at least they will come and ask me for advice many more times. Can i get an interactive slider dashboarding tool on that case? Input variables hours of sleep age of death You wont make it to 75 if you sleep 5 hours a night Okay mathematically it evens out. But you are still missing years and more importantly milestones. Will your granddaughter graduate college or get married in those 14 years? Will your or your children reach new professional heights in in those 14 years? How many more children or great grandchildren will be born in those 14 years? How many graduations and weddings will you miss how many birthdays would your spouse be a widow? How likely are they in those 14 years to send a person to Mars Id personally hate to miss that. My grandfather turns 90 next month. In the past 14 years hes been proud to welcome 2 great grandchildren to our family with 3 more on the way and see at least 5 of his grandchildren so far get into grad school. A lot can happen in 14 years that just doesnt math out the same in the end. As someone who has insomnia it’s not worth it. Post 20 Younger generations used to listen to heavier music than the generation before. Its not the case anymore. Author Quetzalcoatl__ /u/Quetzalcoatl__ has flaired this post as a **casual thought**. Casual thoughts should be presented well but may be less unique or less remarkable than . If this post is poorly written unoriginal or rulebreaking please report it. Otherwise please add your comment to the discussion! &ampnbsp This is an automated system. If you have any questions please to message the moderators. Kind of depends on what you mean by heavier I kinda see what you mean but I think its also important to mention heavy metal and heavier music in general was new at the time thus being more popular theres still lots of music innovation going on but I wouldnt say its at the same place. I think theres a lot of new heavier music coming out that younger people still really like but its new genres. Honestly depends on the genre. EDM bass genres have significantly rose in popularity over the past decade Gojira played at the Olympics. Great track BTW. Silly quetzalcoatl music has no weight. A CD of Taylor swift weighs as much as a CD of Slipknot Not really. Metal especially the more aggressive subgenres has always been pretty niche relative to contemporary pop music. Lol you think our entire generation was listening to Cannibal Corpse or something? Freaks myself included were into that shit but not most kids. Theres guys out there making stuff that would make your head spin. Check out Tetragrammacides TyphoTantric Aphorisms from the Arachneophidian Quran. Fucking brutal. My dad was listening to Black Sabbath and AC/DC while I danced around to Avril Lavigne. Not sure this holds water. Dude millennials had that whole emo phase. This isnt some kind of hard and fast rule. This is not even close to truth. In the last 3 decades most of the people used to listen to radio formula love song pop music. Heavy metal rock and hard rock were consistently losing fans withthe exception of the 20052010 years. I would say right now the most pooular songs are usually way darker or sexualized with adult themes on lyrics. The trap reaggeton even the basic pop figures are more explicit. Not only that but metal just emerged again by grabbing the hand of gutural voices low tuned guitar crazy overdrive and complex rythms as if they were some sort of EDM track. Talking about EDM in electronic music the most popular moment of that music was the dance in the 00s and early 10s then EDM and other kind of electronic music brought fresh air and now we are going back to the rawest forms of techno subgenres. Now is even a cool and edgy kid to say that they listen techno. I dont know man my dad and I are metalheads through and through. We both love it heavy [deleted] People of every generation have had and still have broad and varied tastes in music. There is still heavy music being produced now. The concept of heavy also exists across all genres. Right now drum n bass is huge. Drum n bass is like the heavy metal of electronic music. It is loud fast and has heavy drum beats and bass hence the name. [removed] ??? Theirs people of my generation who listen to heavy shit? Thats because theyre out there listening to experimental noisecore and hyperpop. Clearly youre hanging out in the wrong crowds if you think younger generations arent listening to heavy music In the 90s I remember a friend of mine said music doesnt get heavier or more screamy than The Deftones. Then we found 80s adjectivecore music. music tastes evolve with culture and technology whats considered heavy changes too. Gen Z are all just fem boys now so that makes sense. Source the 3 zoomers you have in your own personal friend bubble I get what you mean but I strongly believe youre wrong. You also lack to vocabulary to describe it. The generation before always thinks the new generation of music sucks. It doesnt even matter the genre or the age. Same thing happened with Beethoven The Beatles Nirvana etc. That hasnt changed. But there is definitely a cycle of less complex to more complex that constantly happens. What I really believe you mean is complex rather than heavy. Listen to some Renaissance music. That stuff is heavy. Haydn and Mozart. Simple. Beethoven is heavy. Robert Glass is simple. My theory is musicians/composers are constantly trying to push the boundaries and once they get to a point where they reach the limits the only thing left is to go back to simplicity and its ground breaking when they do because its seen through a new lens. Huh? As a metalhead this isn’t true at all Were at a musical peak just as we are at technological peak as well. Music cant get any more complex. There are so many subgenres the differences become more and more obscure. What was heavy before is still heavy even now with different flavours of heaviness. well eventually the spectrum becomes a circle. Id say it otherwise grandmas would have never listened to kids music in the past crazy noise. Now they love it... They see how much we spend on hearing aids… From my experience you can pump out the heaviest tube and the most face melting solo all for your uncles to say how am I supposed to dance to this?” It be like that sometimes. I dont really think this is true. Advances in production and sound manipulation mean metal bands can continue to find entirely new ways to make heavier and heavier music. See Frontierer Car Bomb Humanitys Last Breath among many others of course There will always be new ways of pushing boundaries to make heavier more extreme more dissonant sounds. i think the heavier music” that older generations used to listen to has transformed into trap music like Carti or trippie redd no that’s just an unproven generalization. millennials had ed sheeran gen z has sabrina carpenter. millennials had aphex twin gen z has machine girl. what the fuck is your point Ive been saying this for many years. New music today sounds like adult contemporary of the 90s [deleted] Ive got an 11 year old and a 15 year old. I honestly have no idea what music they listen to if its not something I loaded onto their MP3 players. Everyone wears headphones. I mean kinda. I guess the death metal genre is already about 40 years old and it may be the heaviest genre. But I would for sure the last 20 years has been heavier than the 20 years prior for it. I’ll preface this by saying I’m referring to emo” as in the subculture rather than the music genre but I feel like a lot of modern day emo kids” are listening to stuff like sad boy rap hyperpop etc .. almost reminds me of some of the scene” music from the late 2000s and early 2010s? maybe that’s just me though haha Music can only get so heavy. It was bound to stop getting heavier eventually. Vibe music seems to be in now. Idk excision be thumpin in ways my parents don’t like. My 50 year old brother in law thinks hair metal is heavy so... my dad’s heaviest band he likes is stone temple pilots. i listen to guttural slug. i win. My grandpa listened to lynard skynard and right now Im hyperfixated on motionless in white but sometimes I be listening to Jon bellion so really it depends on my mood Nah not true. But also plenty of heavy shit. What makes music heavy or light? How do you measure it? I mean there comes a point where it gets difficult to make it heavier/more intense. You can only tune your guitars so low and you can only scream so hard Nah. Simon &amp Garfunkel and all the rest of the folk revival during the civil rights era arent harder than half the rockandrollers of the 50s. Chuck Berry Elvis Presley Ray Charles Little Richard Jerry Lee Lewis just to name a few. Its the late 60s and 70s mostly 70s before we got anything heavier than 50s devil music with Led Zeppelin Black Sabbath Pink Floyd AC/DC ... Its all cyclical and this shower thought is DOA. Young kids today still listen to a lot of heavy music especially metal. I always see my students listening to bands like Gojira Tool Pantera System of a Down Death Metallica Korn the list goes on. Actually they do. It’s just hip hop instead of rock/metal. I think now were all just discovering our own definition of heavy. Theres weird expiramental music with heavy tones even pop that is fairly dark. Traditional heaviness is still very much a thing but people have been exploring outside the box for quite sometime now. People are gonna settle on whatever feels right for the mood. I don’t think you can get much heavier than some current bands like Primitive Man. I love to joke saying that beyond the abyss of black metal lays the kawaii zone.. And it kinda makes sense when all that you listen to is heavy music suddenly everything becomes homogeneous you get accustomed and it kinda becomes bland. But when you start to add contrasts in the music. The perceived heaviness is bigger. To a degree yoasobis undead idol and Kaibutsu and zutomayos hippocampal pain and a few from myth and roid like voracity and palette of passionsomewhere without sunshine is somber afaccomplish this contrasts giving them a perception of heaviness thats actually higher than they actually are. Thats true. Metal is quite popular with young people right now but its usually combined with pop hiphop and RnB elements. Knocked Loose is probably the heaviest popular band at the moment. Really dont want to sound pretentious but I dont know how else to say this funny thing I recently discovered. Assuming op means heavy as in heavy subject matter not just aggressive music. During a conversation with my mom about why Im not really a big fan of her generations melancholic psychedelic music simply because I find them to be too negative and gloomy and then immediately put on Pumped Up Kids and Body Shop in the car was where I realized that both our music tastes were actually the same but only expressed differently. I do think the young music of today still has heavy content just played up with a everythings fine style. Which if intended by the artists is a great social commentary on how normalized bad things are which makes those kinds of songs far more chilling imo. But thats just my thought I could be full of shit for all I know Yeah the shift’s realold generations had loud rebellion now it’s more emotional and introspective. Still heavy just in a different way. Stupid younger generation... Back in my day we had Justin Bieber Katy Perry... That was real music. 9PF1bFKhVZWqaqSp3LHYunEUG4iLMypZDoeV9Jf4pump Idk man. Have you heard of this Ken Carson guy? He’s all the rage with younger Gen Z and his production has a little too much distortion for my tastes. Maybe things are less heavy then they were You have clearly never listened to Extra Tone. There are people alive today who are older than the music industry. Yes weve always had music but 100 years ago it was very rare to be able to say to a friend Hey check put this specifically crafted performance of this music number by this specific musician. Youd have to go and physically see them perform somewhere. Like so many things the overwhelming bulk of innovation in music only happened in the last 80 years. The younger generation listens to trap seems pretty heavy to me lyricswise As a teenager I was a metal head but now I’m into hardstyle The most popular music of every time period is light songs about love and dancing. Come listen to Sleep and Monolord with us over in r/stonerrock. 54 listened to heavy stuff in the 80s 90s and 2Ks and still listen to modern heavy stuff all the time. I have XM I listen to Octane and Liquid Metal. I pretty much live in it. No way is one heavier than the other just different artists playing more modern takes on it.... for a long time ive delighted in knowing Im of the first music generation that will get to say damn kids with your quiet music and gently swaying back and forth... in my day music hurt and we LIKED IT Idk man I just wanna chill to my lofi and eat an edible Is that why Bon Jovi was one considered hard rock but is now radio pop music? Is that why music went from composed orchestra pieces to death metal? What? Have you heard music before today? Yeah this is a good one. Theres different ways to piss off your parents now than existed when my cohort sought out edgier and heavier music than they liked. Hundreds of musical subgenres would disagree. Look... its not your guys fault that things peaked in the 90s. No one is going to hold it against you. /s In all seriousness what I think was the biggest thing to happen in the 90s was not bands like nirvana though they were good but just the proliferation of more genres and interest in a variety of music. As we then passed into the 2000s with access to the internet increasing and more and more people using streaming services it became easier and easier to get into the exact niches of musics that interested you. Instead of one big push or direction of music being pushed by radio it was able to branch out in all directions. this is false. the EDM that the youth are into is very heavy. dubstep trap hard techno…. They headbang and have mosh pits. its just not rock or metal. I still listen to Slayer on a daily basis. Some of what my son listens to is too much for me. Hes great at introducing me to new music though. Currently getting into Loathe thanks to him. I dont think so look at the current wave in trap/hip hop. Opium label puts out stuff that the older heads regularly trash as noisey garbage. Bro heavy metal is so fucking good right now... Subgenres upon Subgenres of nasty shit there is some really heavy news music out there but Im guessing its moslty listened to by older people. todays popular music is very female dominated and well wimpy. Really? I would say the dip was with the millenials. They listened to pop and rap instead. music has bi furcated/multi furcated. If you speak of what is charting right now yeah the pop girlies are mostly in ascendency right now. But if you speak of this moment in which all these kids coming up have absolute accesss to whatever they like I don’t think it’s accurate to say the kids of today are more narrowly confined they are a plurality. The covid kids have missed out on actually taking part in scenes as I did and I’m sure you. There are no physical scenes anymore. Covid put an end to that. So they’re all just online and maybe some of these kids have found valuable communities online but it will never be the same because the twentieth century is finally definitively over. It’s neither more nor less just different. Perhaps more isolated and dissociatied. Well kind of hard to get heavier than us. Slipknot isn’t even the heaviest band we have. Have you ever heard of femtanyl or infectious jelqing? As much as I love 1920s jazz the simpler music” trend started there and has continued since then. 2020s pop sounds like everything else out there because of volume and because it’s just so much simpler. Music industry is just the same 34 composers writing everyones songs using the same software depending on whatever the label requests and wants to be the new popular style. Thats an interesting observation! It really shows how much **music tastes can evolve** and shift between generations. I mean it took a little longer to get to Its like how much more black could this be? and the answer is none. None more black than *This Is Spın̈al Tap* predicted but we did eventually get there. But people still wanted music to change and evolve so they went in other directions instead. I think its just the charts. Im 16 and all my friends are rock/metal fans Im also really big on techno/trance/hardcore. Its just that were also listening to softer music too. Post 21 The richest people list in actuality is the legally richest people which is only close to the actual richest people list. There are tons of illegal super rich people. Author JLF2411 /u/JLF2411 has flaired this post as a **speculation**. Speculations should prompt people to consider interesting premises that cannot be reliably verified or falsified. If this post is poorly written unoriginal or rulebreaking please report it. Otherwise please add your comment to the discussion! &ampnbsp This is an automated system. If you have any questions please to message the moderators. You are correct. For example Monarchs and Dictators are no included in the Riches People Lists. Putin and the Saudi Monarchs are estimated richer than Elom and Bezos. Just for comparison there are estimations that the global illegal economy could be the size of 30% of the global GDP of the legal economy highly regional differences for sure. They usually dont count heads of state and royalty either. Ive seen people with more info about how to calculate it than I have claim Saudi Arabia has more than one person worth over a trillion dollars. Trillion with a T. That same article or rundown also listen Putin as the actual wealthiest person on Earth claiming something like $1.3T in touchable assets. The attrition rate of being illegally super rich is high. Really high. Bold of you to assume even the richest people list isnt full of illegal behavior.... They put pablo escobar on that list at some point so not really. Honestly I think its the people who want to be known as rich. There are quiet but legal rich people too. Not many of them there are very few ways to be as rich as it takes to be on that list while having perfectly legal [or ethical] incom streams. Knew someone that managed assets for someone on the list once. Absolutely none of the lists are truly accurate they are estimates and they are only estimated based on whatever is public information and whatever the individual wants to share. This particular individual had not been listed for many years but decided it was time to have a public record of his wealth. It was mostly only their US and known international investments/ holdings. There was A LOT that was not included in international wealth and there is A LOT that is held in various businesses that are not public theres A LOT held in family and non profit. And there is A LOT that even the person I knew who was this personal friend and CEO of his largest financial holdings knew that they dont know about. Im talking separate wives/families in other countries the primary wife knows is there as a financial mule. According to my contact everything is Legal in the country the business is established in and while they are masters at managing financial and legal loopholes this particular person was considered uniquely upstanding. Yes they knew Trump personally and professionally for many many years 80s on up and vowed to never ever touch any business that does business with Trump if possible and if not possible any vendor they may have in common had to disclose and be verified for the amount Trump owes that vendor. If any vendor was owed more than X% of that vendors net worth specifically from any Trump financially managed projects that vendor was excluded until they were able to prove additional financial funding from reputable banks that they would be able to get paid elehen trump does not pay. If youre on the list youre rich. If youre not on the list you own the list. not really the big revenue is usually through corporations an is clean money maybe south American drug cartels make a lot of cash but is nothing compared to Amazon for example. It’s people that own publicly traded companies. In Germany it is very common to hide large wealth. Its a cultural thing bragging is frowned upon and people dont like to stand out *too* much. Thus most German billionaires are *very* secretive. Which means there are perfectly legal super rich who dont show up in any of these lists. And if they do theyre real net worth is often much harder to estimate than with most American billionaires. Also the richest people list is not super accurate. Musk/Bezos/Gates all have their wealth tied into stock. If they wanted to realize any of those assets the stock loses value and they wouldn’t even really have people to buy the stock from them. Could Elon without borrowing of any kind produce $2 billion in a week? I doubt it. Bet you those illegal” richest people have much more direct access to their wealth. A cartel drug lord def has access to much more inhand money which feels much more real to me. Didnt they used to have Pablo Escobar on those lists? Check this guy Tahnoun Bin Zayed Al Nahyan. 15 trillion dollars under his control. One of the puppetmasters of our world. 99% of legal rich people earned their fortunes through illegal loopholes and family inheritances. Not true. Drug dealers like Pablo Escobar have been on this Richest List”. Dictators as well The Saudi royal family are probably trillionaires and who knows how much Putin has. No. Its the list of *famous* richest people. Smart ones dont paint a target on their backs. These lists also only enumerate people whose wealth is in ***publicly***\traded stocks or other ownership. No one really knows how much the Rothchilds are worth but its a good bit more than the Musks and Zucks of the world. They also never include Arab royalty for some reason All super rich people should be considered illegally rich Also all of that wealth is estimated. We simply dont know how rich many people truly are and some are even suing to *not* be listed anywhere. But we know how much people who are in need social assitance in order to survive have in their pocket down to the penny. Go figure. And the real irony is that a fair few of the names on the legal” list probably got a ton of their money illegally too! It also doesnt include people who are effectively super wealthy but not technically. For example the mormon church is organized as a corporation sole which basically means that it is owned by an office and whoever sits in that chair has absolute control. 100 year old Russel Nelson today is that person and effectively controls their 293 billion dollar empire. It will soon pass to Dallin Oaks when Russel dies. This would put him as #2 on the official list behind Elon. The actual richest person would be able to pay all the media companies and social media companies to keep a list of 100 names out of all their content. Their name being one of them. The Pandora Papers estimated that on the high end theres as much as $32 *trillion* in hidden wealth around the globe. Thats enough to pretty much guarantee that Elon is not the wealthiest man in the world only the wealthiest from publicly known sources. And as others have mentioned you also have people like the Saudi royal family who have total control of an entire countries vast resources not factored into those lists. Also for a lot of these richest in the world it’s stock holdings. And if they were to try to sell them all off it would crash the value. I always call it the greediest people list. Ya itd be naive to think anyone would be more richer than Saudi princes kings and sheikhs. They dont disclose their income and are happy seeing other people fight to be no 1 richest in world . When all that matters is the money &amp power they have not some position on a table. Saudi oil trillionaires have no legal obligation to disclose their finances. To add the richest people list also doesn’t include families multigenerational wealth and in general assets that are not publicly traded and disclosed. If you have 10 billion cash it’s not going to be on the list The real wealth are the people who dictate which names get published in the media. There are multinational family trusts who have hundreds of billions more than they’d ever want you to be aware of. Dynasties such the Bolloré family run every industry imaginable… but are smart enough to not show it off. They own the majority share of the Universal Music Group as one small part of their portfolio. On all of those lists the Forbes ones at least if you read all the disclaimers they mention that they dont include old family money. A quick Google will show the estimates of the Rothschilds wealth to be anywhere between 1 billion to over 15 trillion. Quite a big range of possibilities. The richest people are rich enough to keep their names off the list. Oh Im sure the legitimately rush people have some skeletons in their closets too if only tax evasion. none of those in the list is legal rich. You cant get there without some kind of exploitation down the line They aren’t legally rich. They’re just not convicted. Many super rich people got there through insider trading Legally richest people who have not been caught yet. Funny thing happens with money you can get away with things you couldnt before so even the illegally richest people may be legally rich because the justice system is incapable of holding them accountable. To state your point more succinctly might be something like The richest people list only includes wealthy people who have verifiable wealth unlikely to be aquired through fraud. This is definitely true. I enjoy these lists and I know without a doubt they are wrong Vladimir Putin is never on the list and that clown is probably the most wellknown rich person who is never listed. I think of that whenever I see the lists. Aside from publicly disclosed assets how would anyone know. Putin should probably be at the stop of the list. Close but not quite. Most of the richest people in the world *make* their wealth legal. Youve probably never heard of them. But regardless of how they get their money they use their money to make all their money legal. Dictators and monarchs arent on the list but its hard to have tens of billions secretly. Like you dont have 5 billion in unmarked small bills somewhere. The gap between what you can earn running a cartel and what you get with a founders stake in a global tech giant is just massive. sometimes i forget the average age on Reddit is like 14.... Richest People is the leaderboard for the game of Capitalism. If you wanted the top rated players for Dictatorship or Monarchy you need to look for their respective rankings. yep no ones counting indonesian conglomerates Both lists are full of criminals by the way True those lists only show legal wealth. Plenty of rich people stay off the radar. The richest familys name is shadowbanned on American social media lmao. Hint it starts with an R Exactly. The list shows reported wealth not hidden or illegal money. Big difference. There are also non publicly held stock rich people. I worked for one of these illegally rich people. Everyone knew how much he sold 49% of his company for... yet he had no internet presence. His holdings were worth Billions. They are all illegal. Its just they have good lawyers accountants and grease the right palms to not get prosecuted. No billionaire accumulated that kind of wealth through legal means. Or people who told the list makers none of your damned business. If I were actually wealthy enough to be on a list like that theres no way Id publicize it. Post 22 Well start to see massed public drone displays as a technological practice for war just like in olden times theyd do recreational boxing or tournaments or archery as practice for war. Author lucianw /u/lucianw has flaired this post as a **speculation**. Speculations should prompt people to consider interesting premises that cannot be reliably verified or falsified. If this post is poorly written unoriginal or rulebreaking please report it. Otherwise please add your comment to the discussion! &ampnbsp This is an automated system. If you have any questions please to message the moderators. Large synchronized drone displays are already taking the place of fireworks displays. Youre not thinking American enough. Were going to have drone wars where we make them fight in tournaments I lived outside Washington DC when they had that huge military parade after Desert Storm. So many were in attendance they had a system to pay for the metro by dropping a $1 bill into a huge wire basket! It was like all my GI Joe toys of my childhood were now on display! I had a similar thought the other day that with the advancement of drone technology used in the Russian invasion of Ukraine. It will become much cheaper to kill people. The first thing that is problematic is terrorist groups becoming more efficient as a function of lives lost. The ratio of terrorist to army deaths is very high. Many dozens to possibly thousands depending on the conflict. I expect that to come down in the coming decades. The second thing is traceability. If someone could fly a tiny drone into a stadium or a school and have it explode to remove all evidence while also killing and maiming and for about $100$1000 and it cant be traced back to them then that has the potential to make things very unpleasant. National Anthem flyovers are used for training exercises as well Already happening! https//youtu.be/KxFR5zVNIqY?si=ChaqpnTIMQIZI8TD Its been the other way around really. Moves used in wars are being used for public displays. Having fiber optics cables everywhere will be fun. [deleted] Microrobotics will be used all around the world because of how powerful tiny little drones will be. Not the big ones we see and use today recreationally and otherwise. Consider how small circuitry is now. Consider how dense our processors are now. Some drones will be microscopic and highly effective medical devices that are noninvasive in near future. We wont be put under or have a knife cut open our skin but rather have a couple tiny little drones cruise around our body and prevent and eliminate the uncurable cancer and more. So drone light shows are basically the new jousting tournaments… but with RGB. 9PF1bFKhVZWqaqSp3LHYunEUG4iLMypZDoeV9Jf4pump Post 23 In a more futuristic postapocalyptic world no one will be able to use machinery they find on their travels because they wont have the app for it. Author morph23 The moderators have reflaired this post as a **speculation**. Speculations should prompt people to consider original and interesting premises that cannot be reliably verified or falsified. Please review for more information. &ampnbsp This is an automated system. If you have any questions please to message the moderators. We found an EV car to use with our solar farm Yess!! Now we just hotwire it.... Oh... Unironically part of what makes every fallout character a protagonist/have protagonist powers literally just because they have a pipBoy they have this massive advantage and can do things 90% of civilians cant do anymore. Especially love fallout 4 where you essentially have main character powers solely off of having a pip boy plus being a legal American citizen when no one born after the fall of the US is so the robots recognize you. Or the fuels denatured. Or the rubber gaskets are crumbled. Or there’s no electricity. Yes the over smart phoning of everything’s a problem but people don’t realize how short a lifetime any complex machine actually has if it doesn’t have societal support Yep. Hardware needing an app == planned obsolescence. More like you wont be able to make an account. Basically the 40k mechanicum. They know how to make it work but not *why* what theyre doing works. They just know press buttons XYZ and thing happens. I cant even use half that bullshit NOW. My toaster was fine analogue. I dont think Ive ever been as angry as the time I learned the fucking desk fan I was looking at in Canadian Tire needed a fucking smartphone app to function. The fucking thing didnt even have an on/off switch. My lawyer has advised me not to fully describe my feelings on this matter. Its possible that we be able to bypass some issues like this by remapping ecus and ecms. Devices are likely to have a local mode login info for admin accounts can be brute forced. Once were in we can figure out how to get things to run without manufacturer keys or someone may have a list/file/whathaveyou. More easy but not impossible. Honestly I think the thing that will be most limiting isnt the computers in cars/vehicles. Its the fuel. Its the maintenance. Where are we getting oil belts tires brake pads and rotors brake fluid windows etc. These are all products that would become incredibly scarce. Even EVs need tires. We are already at a point where it is easier to repair a Macintosh from 1984 then an Imac from 2015. This is the great maintenance valley where in the future we will be able to use the current products and the early pre network products but nothing in between. You will be able to plug in an N64 and the switch 4 but you wont be able to use a switch 2. [deleted] Why you dont see a lot of modern cars in new Mad Max movies. One of my favorite scifi scenarios about people dealing with technology in a postapocalyptic world is in the Death Gate Cycle books where there is this machine called the KickseyWinsey From wikipedia The Kickseywinsey a grand machine intended to align the floating continents and provide them with water water being a direct byproduct of its production cycle as well as manufacture all the processed goods desired by the other worlds never became properly active. The dwarves known on this world as Gegs not truly understanding its purpose effectively became slaves to the machine worshiping it after a fashion as an artifact of their gods Basically every control of the machine was operated by someone who passed on the knowledge of what to do to their children. None of them had any idea how the whole thing worked or what it did just things like if this light turns on push this button This is the first post I see actually being tagged a shower thought Same with machinery that uses qr codes to activate. There wouldnt be a device to read the code that activates them. I house sat for my neighbours and their hot tub was controlled by app. I had to message then in Japan to use it... Having an app for everything is ridiculous but Im really glad the QR codes that drivethrus started thinking they needed didnt work out. We got one from 7Brew and were like never again. Made me think of Rimworld its a game and how sometimes your enemies will drop biocoded guns and you cant use them. Annoys the heck out of me. Not quite the same situation but its similar Even now you have to use a app for some bosh dishwashers.. Thatll go away. Itll eventually just be biometric. Then when the system goes down nobody will be able to use anything. Imagine scavenging a perfectly preserved robot dog that could help you hunt but it just keeps flashing ****Connect to App Store to activate.**”** Or stumbling across a fortified electric vehicle... but its stuck at the login screen because it needs the original owner’s biometric scan or 2FA code from an extinct cellphone network. I swear to Glob my motorbike is indestructible. GN250 engine. Old a fuck frame thats jerry rigged with whatever parts I could find that even slightly fit. Runs and sounds like a tractor on meth. If anything happens to me in the apocalypse I **know** that that bike will live on and be someones entire story arc. Its like a rideable cockroach. You could set the damn thing on fire and itd be fine. [deleted] Wont happen because a cell phone/wifi jammer is easy to buy/make and it would wreak havoc with your idea. Gasoline has a shelf life of 6 months so no one can use generators/cars etc also. They need to be actively refining it. In a modern preapocalyptic world I cant use half my products because the app for it died. Please stop with the softwarebased hardware. Found a generator but it needs a subscription.”The apocalypse just got a paywall No app no access. Smart tech becomes dead weight in a post apocalyptic world. in a more futuristic post ap. world youd have a tablet with offline AI on it. tbh anything that needs an app only needs a bluetooth or WifiLAN connection. the device doesnt authenticate you the app does. if you can say the same things over bluetooth as the app youre in. thats what the AI does for you but could be made without that aswell. or just slap your own microcontroller on there. While smart appliances and gadgets are growing more popular I don’t think all machines will be replaced with aibased technology even if some companies might try to encourage this trend. After all there may come a time when the world might lose electricity and internet connection so simple machines will be more universally convenient at that time. Post 24 If humans truly generalize we would be able to use our nondominant hand without trouble. Author Professional_Job_307 /u/Professional_Job_307 has flaired this post as a **speculation**. Speculations should prompt people to consider interesting premises that cannot be reliably verified or falsified. If this post is poorly written unoriginal or rulebreaking please report it. Otherwise please add your comment to the discussion! &ampnbsp This is an automated system. If you have any questions please to message the moderators. You can if you practice you just have to spend the same amount of time doing the shit you do with your dominant as you do your non dominant And risk having people think Im left handed? No thanks! I can use both with ease Although I do trust my left hand way more than my right true story I had a dream my right arm betrayed me wouldn’t listen to my commands refused to obey that’s when the trust for my left arm started to grow. For direction purposes I prefer my left hand if I’m boxing I’d prefer to snap with my left hand at work I often use my mouse in my left hand one of my coworkers noticed my mouse was in my left hand and say with the most disgusting tone I’ve ever heard Your Left handed!” She looked confused and disgusted I explained I can use both and today feels like a left hand. And she was like OH ok I was about to say” I don’t know why she reacted that way. I also drive with two feet left for brake and right for gas I don’t trust people that drive with one foot. I’m ambidextrous but predominantly lefthanded. The story goes I used both hands equally until I got a bone infection when I was a toddler. Ended up with a huge cast with an IV in my arm for weeks. Favored my left during that time and it stuck. People just decided that I was a lefty and when I could be taught something left by a righty no one in my life was lefthanded it took awhile but I did it. Spent most of my life being called a klutz until my dad got me into sports and we figured out I was a switch hitter in baseball and could alternate in archery pool boxing etc. I also began to teach myself righthanded skills whenever a leftie option wasn’t there. I think we can generalize but our need to make life exist in a binary is getting in the way of it [deleted] Humans already can. There are people who are born and able to write with both hands and don’t have a dominant hand. And then there are people who learn how to use both hands. It took me until I was at least 8 to get reasonably skilled with my dominant hand. Give me 8 years to get good with my non dom hand and Ill use it to tug. You actually can…you just need to practice. Break your dominant hand and cast it for 6 months and watch yourself magically become ambidextrous I can for almost everything but writing. My left is still dominant but the dumb hand isnt really dumb until it picks up a pen. I suppose youve never seen anyone play a piano before? I believe dominant hand theory is bullshit. When I was in Kindergarten one teacher came over and diagnosed me as left handed in grade 1 another teacher diagnosed me as right handed. At the time I took their words for it. Grade 1 was more recent so I am right handed. Later in life I have been told I am a lefthanded shooter a right handed fisherman an X handed whatever. Its all bullshit. Whatever is comfortable and works for you is how you should do it... The more you practice with one side the better you get. Post 25 Dating apps have created a sliver of human history where it’s possible to successfully flirt with someone while pooping. Author cambium7 /u/cambium7 has flaired this post as a **casual thought**. Casual thoughts should be presented well but may be less unique or less remarkable than . If this post is poorly written unoriginal or rulebreaking please report it. Otherwise please add your comment to the discussion! &ampnbsp This is an automated system. If you have any questions please to message the moderators. Id bet some slob of a royal family member has petitioned chamber maids for sex from the bathroom. I argue this showerthought is a speculation. In Roman times they had communal bathrooms with no dividers. Homosexuals have existed for as long as humanity has. It is almost certain that one of them has flirted on the poop throne. Buddy I’ve been poopin’ and flirting before dating apps Swipe right wipe left. Humanity has peaked. This is just a matter of how much game you have A friend of mine was on dating apps 10 years ago and got a match. She started talking to this dude and he deadass sends her a picture of him on the shitter. People are wild. Dating apps aside I ain’t learn what a blumpkin was from your mother for nothin’ friend. # Were living in the only era where a swipe right could lead to love while youre literally sitting on the toilet. And weve somehow made judging a book by its cover into an app feature Im sure many flirts have been made while pooping in the past. While within the same room.... Id argue texting probably really invented that? Like maybe flirting with someone for the first time or something would happen more during dating apps But pre dating apps it was stuff like eHarmony and I bet people exchanged texts or maybe even emails on a smart phone long before any dating apps And thats even before you think about people IN a relationship flirting which could literally date to the first text ever sent depending on the text sent Im sure theres a record of the first text but Im not aware of what it said Been flirting via text message for the last 22 years. Didnt need a dating app to accomplish this. Is OP suggesting they have never flirted and pooped with someone in person? Wild. where everyones out of your league but youre not out of anyones league Not anymore. The greedy companies broke them all Clearly youve never heard of those German kink clubs sometimes i wait for her LOL!!!” and try to crown at the exact moment i see it. That has 100% happened before probably thousands of years ago. [deleted] Using a dating app is almost like getting legal advice online. It’s convenient but it’s not as good as the real thing. That’s because people you meet on dating apps can easily project a persona that’s far from what they are in real life possibly leaving you disappointed. Texting has been around for way longer than dating apps. I have no experience but I feel like public bathroom cruising culture make any that was always a slim option Oh this was possible long time before dating apps. It depends on your personal technique for both! im sure this has happened without dating apps before... Dating apps might be convenient since you can find a match with one tap. But one reason why a lot of online connections end up as flops is because there’s a big difference between what people present themselves to be virtually compared to what they really are in real life. Truly living in the peak or the downfall? of civilization. Modern romance brought to you by WiFi and questionable timing. Virtual bumpkins are now possible. Thanks OP I don’t know about that. Caveman hey you seeing the size of this turd? Clearly I got lots of food at cave wanna come with me?” Wild times we’re living in romance and restroom breaks now go hand in hand. politicians have been doing this for decades. Romans in their common communal lavatories have entered the chat. Hey Ive seen houses with phones in the bathrooms. This has been possible for decades. Anybody could have had a cordless phone 30+ years ago so hard wiring wasnt required. Well just chat apps like messenger accomplishes that as well Actually the high society in middle ages all wore those big bell shaped dresses so the could defecate freely anywhere. Those fancy ballrooms were covered in feces by the end of the night. They would add flowers and perfume to mask their awful stench. So.... Great shower thought but unfortunately not true.... Shoot my cousin stool flirts so much he gets a hardon anytime he smells shit.. To be fair I bet some freaky deaky shit went down tens of thousands of years ago. This is relevant only to men as women don’t poo. Flirt with bots and prostitutes and get rejected 100s of times a minute while pooping. Fixed that for you. Post 26 A countless number of innocent people especially kids with their parents must’ve gotten in big trouble because of a picture that was Photoshopped or AI… Author LungSalad /u/LungSalad has flaired this post as a **speculation**. Speculations should prompt people to consider interesting premises that cannot be reliably verified or falsified. If this post is poorly written unoriginal or rulebreaking please report it. Otherwise please add your comment to the discussion! &ampnbsp This is an automated system. If you have any questions please to message the moderators. This could end up being a very big legal issue. I wonder if big gov’t will force AI software platforms to have some kind of identifier or if video/photo evidence will be considered less reliable. This is getting downvoted but I have sincerely wondered about this. Video evidence is quickly becoming more questionable as its so easy even without knowledge or skill to create an approximation of what you want. Assuming AI continues to improve to the point we could have a case where going to court over a car accident could have people presenting two different events *about* the same event. And now we have a perjury case but we dont know which one perjured could be both! I think its naive to assume there will *always* be something identifiable that an expert can detect whenever the development seems to be to become as indistinguishable from reality as possible. [deleted] Post 27 It would feel so weird to have kids and have them talk about current events like they were ancient. Author FutureWaffles /u/FutureWaffles has flaired this post as a **casual thought**. Casual thoughts should be presented well but may be less unique or less remarkable than . If this post is poorly written unoriginal or rulebreaking please report it. Otherwise please add your comment to the discussion! &ampnbsp This is an automated system. If you have any questions please to message the moderators. Yeah when they started with did you know you can say actually yeah I was there. Wait till you have kids that dont believe youre older than Google or the Internet. It feels weird enough as a 40 something hearing young adults talk about stuff from your life as really ancient. In one of the Avengers movies Tom Holland as Spiderman says at one point I saw in this really old movie called Empire Strikes Back and that captures the feel of it pretty well. I saw a person post on reddit What did people do before google maps? Someone answered They used maps. and the poster responded No I said before that. I saw a kids react video where the kids were asked to try and make a phone call with a landline phone. maybe it was also rotary I forget. They couldnt figure it out but had no issues finding the call button on a smart phone. I saw a post from the National Archives asking for people to help transcribe historical documents written in cursive before the generation able to read cursive dies out. It wasnt even sloppy handwriting just cursive. It’s great when my kids call 1995 back in the 1900s” My kids called the internet an ancient invention…. Guess when your reference point is 8 years of existence I think the first major event i saw was the Challenger explosion. Then Mr. Gorbachev tear down this wall! A few Gulf Wars Bosnian War. OJ Simpson trial. Oklahoma City Bombing. 9/11. Just to name a few and I have kids. I think whats better than feeling weird is that I can actually have conversations with them about my personal experiences with these events and the sheer curiosity and boundless questions they have about them. I teach high school. I was shocked to learn recently that kids dont really learn about ww2 or the Holocaust anymore. For me growing up that was the major historical event that we learnt about pretty much every year. Now they learn about things that happened more recently in place of it. Things that I remember happening like 9/11 and the war in Iraq or the war in Syria. Recently a student even referred to the 90s as the olden days. Just remember Kids born now dont have a clue what Covid19 was... On 9/11 our principal always encourages students to ask the staff about their personal experiences from that day. They asked but the new teacher across the hall had nothing to share because she hadn’t been born yet. I felt so old in that moment. my Daughter had a US History assignment on 9/11 and they had to talk to someone who remembered it. trying to explain how society felt a collective pain and anger to someone who wasnt there is super difficult. Its a trip when my kids are studying history in school and yawning over events which were headlines in my youth and which would make my parents absolutely panic. Especially when they refer to 1997 as the late 1900s. You were alive before iPads??” Yeah kid and before TikTok too. Sit down. I already feel that way. I’m 35 and there’s people living today that were born after 9/11. My children studied the 80s in history!!! I was a child then its not history it was yesterday I swear.... I know this is like the textbook example given but every high schooler was born after 9/11. Every middle schooler was born after Hurricane Katrina 2005 and the housing crash of 2008. Aging is weird. Ive been old enough to talk to adults who already do that for awhile. Honestly it gives me a bit of pause and perspective our time in this universe is quite short. Its important imo when these events have relevance to current events to pass on what those evens were like to live though from my perspective. Many of those who in the past passed on their perspective to me our no longer here to talk to about it. Mom did people *really* used to fight over toilet paper?” Yes sweetie. We lived through the Great TP Wars of 2020. Never forget. 9/11 is popping up in hostory books now. I was in second grade when that happened. I was talking to a coworker new graduate hire about something I watched on VHS. It hit me when he was looking at me waiting for me to further explain. It was an odd experience. Suddenly it hit me is this what grownups ment with oh this new generation doesnt know how it used to be back in the day I need an adult...wait I AM THE ADULT. The kids at the school where I work marvel at the fact that I was born in the 1900s!!!” I always tell myself that when I have kids Im going to convince them the events of Halo were real and show them the Believe trailers from Halo 3 [deleted] This literally happened to me tonight at dinner. It’s weird for my kids to talk about something that happened 30 years ago while I was in college. I still talk with my dad often about the fall of the wall Not weird to meinteresting stimulating and enlightening. Conversations about all sorts of things make mealtimes great. Ah then it seems I misunderstood apologies. What clarifying information did you add? It was already established that Google is 27 years old. Well yeah that’s one way to feel old lol. But when your kids are grown up enough to talk about past events it will be history for you too since years have already passed. Right? One day they’ll call 2029 history” and we’ll just sit there feeling ancient ourselves. Pretty sure Drum &amp Bass is oldtimey music to my kids And if thats not a good feeling you might want to consider it a reason to be an antinatalist. Post 28 The NSA probably knows the top commenter on the entire internet. Author thesmartass1 /u/thesmartass1 has flaired this post as a **speculation**. Speculations should prompt people to consider interesting premises that cannot be reliably verified or falsified. If this post is poorly written unoriginal or rulebreaking please report it. Otherwise please add your comment to the discussion! &ampnbsp This is an automated system. If you have any questions please to message the moderators. Dont feel left out the NSA knows you too. The NSA probably is the top commenter on the internet. Eric Cartman? Yeah we tracked him for a little bit but central computer designated his status as fat and unimportant. The NSA isnt Quite as actively engaged as people think. That guy staring over your shoulder is actually FBI If I could post the spiderman meme I would. [deleted] I know this is a joke but it is pretty interesting how it works albeit a bit horrifying. They basically flag certain keywords to compile a profile on you. If your activity has numerous hits for flagged keywords it raises the priority of your profile in turn raising the level of surveillance. If your net traffic has enough hits that match a specific threat profile you can be referred for investigation by the FBIs counterterrorism unit domestic targets or CIA if youre abroad and your net traffic is routed through the USA. No they arent looking at everything you do but if you are constently researching bomb making techniques sourcing materials looking up potential targets etc you get increased scrutiny. If they compile enough data to suggest a credible threat you may get a knock on the door or will be the target of an investigation. The FBI might even pose as an individual offering to sell you explosives. Sneaky sneaky. Probably not. They only know about you if you threaten harm to the country and after that they catalogue everything you said that could be dangerous and probably give you a status like active threat potential threat no threat and if necessary forward this information to enforcement This is all speculative I dont actually know what they do obviously but if I was a security agency thats what I would do. Thats because they currently work for him. man that guy at eglin air base sure loves his reddit…” Top commenter like most upvotes or highest number of posts/comments posted on an account? NSA probably have their own people who comment and their bots to upvote and all that to change how humanity goes and thats a thing to consider as real threat In todays privacy compromised world your best bet is to be ordinary and not worth the time thats the only invisibility cloak you can have. Stick out like sore thumb and yes every electron you interact with can and will be monitored Top commenter across the whole internet? My money is on KenM I mean they definitely do but also the top commenters on the entire internet are all bot farms. The real question is how far down do you have to go now to see an actual human on that list. Probably pretty fucking deep. They may not actually know who that person is. The truth is the internet is already mostly dead and it’s dying more and more every year. [deleted] You’re probably right. The question is are they able to make sense of all the intel ? They seem to lack perspective forest for the trees. It may well be an urban legend I once heard that the NSA were sitting on credible intel on 911 more than 24 hours before the attack. Yet they remained paralysed NSA the only part of the government that actually listens... Feel like thats a pretty fluid distinction. It is probably that guy who devoted his life to continually updating wikipedia Steven Pruitt over 6.5M edits. Its highly likely to be one of their bots too. Plot twist the top commenter *is* an NSA bot. NSA Has the ability to know every commenter... Given that various 3letter agencies run psyops to direct popular opinion in various directions the CIA may BE the top commenter on the entire internet. The NSA already has the best geohacker. Getting influence over influencers is just a matter of a voucher request for the Feds to print more money to give to the influencers. Maybe the top commenter in category but idk whole Web Ah the NSA’s MVP of the comment section—probably spends more time typing than I do flipping pancakes on a Sunday! Bots are the top commenters and the nsa only knows a few of them Top 100 commenters probably are Russian bots followed by Trumpster bots and close behind are christian religion bots that post bible psalms. Post 29 As people die and atoms shift around there might one day be a worm completely made up of atoms that once knew what cosmic horrors and taxes were. Author still_leuna /u/still_leuna has flaired this post as a **musing**. Musings are expected to be highquality and thoughtprovoking but not necessarily as unique as . If this post is poorly written unoriginal or rulebreaking please report it. Otherwise please add your comment to the discussion! &ampnbsp This is an automated system. If you have any questions please to message the moderators. ... Makes me wonder what thoughts the atoms in say my socks might have had at some point. I’m not sure I even know what cosmic horrors are. So where is the worm getting those atoms from? Although technically possible the odds of this happening are astronomically low. Like low enough that the chance of it happening in a universe with effectively infinite planets with infinite humans and infinite worms is still effectively 0. The reason is that there are a LOT of atoms even in a microscopic worm. C Elegens has something like 1017 atoms 1000000000000000000 atoms. So even with the smallest worm species just randomly shuffling all the atoms in animals on earth and youd end up with a chance in the ballpark of 1 in 101018 a number so astronomically large that just writing it out would take more bytes than the sum total of all human knowledge and the sum total of all human data storage to store. And the real chances when you consider all atoms on earth and the chance of them being reincorporated into one life form is going to be exponentially geometrically exponentially smaller than this. For a sec I thought you were gonna say a worm made of atoms that were once your girlfriend which you would still love ofc The thought that a biological being could theoretically come into existence bootloaded with memories whether accurate or not is amusing and horrifying. What a good writing prompt! I can imagine a species that due to their genetics remembers” that they forgot something very important but can’t quite figure out what and then they form their entire lives and civilization around figuring out what it is that they all forgot. The first one to study the phenomenon points out the evidence becomes a martyr and divides civilization for the first time. Kinda. Atoms were never in on it. They didnt know anything. Similar to how a single bit on a drive doesnt know what whole piece of data its a part of. Atoms are Legos that build something greater that was able to have a consciousness. Someday you will die somehow and somethings going to steal your carbon. It was said that within each sandworm that grew on Arrakis after the God Emperors division a pearl of his consciousness remained in perpetual dreamstate. Just had a very similar thought there going more into the area of reincarnation. Ive always been and remain an atheist. So I guess this is kind of like a atheistic form of reincarnation when we die and disintegrate into nothingness given an infinite universe or series of universes would we eventually come back as something. Ive had this thought a couple of times but then had an interesting followup thought. Given when we die our consciousness would immediately cease an infinite amount of time may pass but we would have no perception of the passing of time so we would wake up immediately after dying essentially with amnesia as quite likely as another creature. I guess then the question boils down to what exactly is consciousness and is it as simple as shifting about atoms.. no idea but had a good time shuffling about this thought. Years ago I told my sister that there might be a butterfly made with a little bit of Hitler after having this thought. ... and the other worms think he be trippin yo If you wish to make an apple pie from scratch you must first invent the universe. This assumes atoms can store and recall information of what theyve been if the right structures are formed. Maybe similar to the boltzmann brain? Given enough time in the void a whole brain with fake memories could spontaneously appear and dissolve and the brain would never know the difference. Your thoughts and senses might be entirely this process happening over and over at unfathomable timescales. Between each you that forms in each instant there could be eons of time of other stuff forming and decaying. Dying and reintegrating takes too long for worms to achieve supremacy loathe as I am to admit it If the cosmic horrors” are beyond my comprehension then how are they supposed to scare me? Checkmate liberals Given crime and evidence disposal I suspect some such worms may already exist. The more general version of this would be a . A fully functioning brain forming randomly. Extra weird... some people think the universe itself is a massive Boltzmann Brain because of how its largescale structure looks like . also means that given an infinite universe there exists a worm made up entirely of what used to be someones girlfriends atoms. Imperious Caesar dead and turned to clay Might stop a hole to keep the wind away. Oh that that earth which kept the world in awe Should patch a wall t expel the winter’s flaw! So youre saying worms might inherit all our existential dread and paperwork. This immediately put me in mind of . A worm eats the brain of a subject that was experimented on with some paranormal technology and then the worm gets infected with a consciousness and then gets eaten by a bird infecting the bird that then gets eaten by a dog infecting the dog etc. Great story and episode. How many water molecules in your eyeballs were once part of some creature’s ejaculate? What are you doing here? This earns no wheat! The Boltzmann brain thought experiment suggests that it might be more likely for a brain to spontaneously form complete with a memory of having existed in our universe rather than for the entire universe to come about in the manner cosmologists think it actually did. https//en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Boltzmann_brain someday you will die and somehow someones gonna steal your carbon Why wait for that? I already fit the description to a T. At one point in Hamlet he wonders if there are barrel corks made out of the same organic matter that was once Alexander the Great Maybe that’s reincarnation in the truest form not as a soul but as stardust forever doomed to remember things it no longer needs to. A worm with anxiety and tax trauma love that for evolution You werent born its just its your turn to use the atoms lol this shower thought is a cosmic horror Idk why some people think Reincarnation is such a crazy concept when literally everything in the universe is a cycle. Matter and energy equal the same thing and cannot be created or destroyed only transformed. So everything is infinite. The universe itself and consciousness are clearly cycles too. It makes no sense that everything could just pop into existence out of nowhere from nothing at all and religion is man made to control the masses with fear for power and control. The universe always existing and being a mind of infinite energy that is experiencing itself through countless focal points with evolution and Reincarnation is the only thing that makes sense. [deleted] Reminds me of that thought experiment with the apple and the box Completely? No. There are too many atoms even in a tiny worm. The chance that every last one of them was in a person is infinitesimally small. Not really because atoms know nothing. You could say it might be made up of atoms that once made up people who knew taxes and cosmic horrors. What if the sentient energy within you is only capable of forming such complex mechanisms and thoughts processes while the atoms serve as a container to it. Brain worms are a thing already. They dont have to wait for people to die. That would be unimaginably unlikely. Maybe most atoms that have been in a human but not even close to all. That would be like all the air molecules in your room spontaneously collecting in one corner which is technically possible. In a universe with infinite time but with only a finite number of combinations for atoms.... One day you will be reborn not as a worm...but as your mother in law Is that really how it works? Like when your times up and you kick the bucket do the atoms in your body just disperse into the rest of the earth? Post 30 Dreams feel like internal AI everything feels like reality but you can tell something is off. Sometimes six fingers or you can fly. People places and things morph around in unusual ways. All the details are scraped from past experiences and the information one has consumed over their lifetime. Author sakecat /u/sakecat has flaired this post as a **casual thought**. Casual thoughts should be presented well but may be less unique or less remarkable than . If this post is poorly written unoriginal or rulebreaking please report it. Otherwise please add your comment to the discussion! &ampnbsp This is an automated system. If you have any questions please to message the moderators. When I notice discrepancies in my dreams my subconscious tries to come up with an explanation that seems plausible. I recall a dream where my father was still alive and I asked him whether its a dream because he passed away 10 years ago. He tells me that he faked his death to avoid the mob and it was quite convincing until I noticed my dad looked like Morgan Freeman. Funnily enough I was thinking about this expect thing today after I woke up. A machine copying things its ingested and attempting to make a duplicate And I always wake up so thirsty… even the AI ran locally in my brain consumes a lot of water just for generating dreams? Exactly it’s like your brain is remixing everything you’ve ever seen heard or felt into this weird fluid world. It’s so real in the moment but there’s always that strange logic gap like a glitch in a simulation We should say that AI fells like dreams since they came first Most modern generative AI works by encoding an input into a low dimensional latent space that is completely unrecognizable and then transforming it back to an output format understandable by humans. If you tweak the latent vectors in certain ways you can modify the output make a face more feminine/masculine/old/young Dreams are like walking the latent space of our brain If you recall some of the early AI image generators had dream in the name inspired by the dreamlike vibe of the images they produced. Though sometimes the vibe was more nightmare. Whats fucked up with dreams though is sometimes Ill become too aware halfway through and it will collapse and Ill end up waking myself up in deep sleep before my brain sends a signal to restore muscle tone. So Ill just wake up paralyzed. Its actually annoying sometimes because I fly a lot in my dreams and I dont always know where Im going you know? And sometimes I worry myself because like how can I render something I dont know. Like this one dream I was running from some gmen in suits and I fled in an elevator. I stopped and thought to myself theyll probably be waiting for me on whatever floor I get off at so I decided to leave through the emergency hatch. Until I realized I dont actually know what an elevator shaft looks like on the inside. The dream collapsed. Human intelligence and AI is not as different as people want to believe. Its so true. I hadnt associated it with the scraping of experiential data but youre right! I had a dream last night where i was a famous basketball player and a random guy said something rude to me so i tried to slap him but it was that dream movement where if you try to do anything quickly it feels like you are doing it underwater. I tried three times to slap him but basically just ended up awkwardly caressing his face lmao. I remember thinking in my dream man i wish you could move faster in dreams. But the dream never turned lucid or at least i dont think it did. Then in my next dream i have to assume it was a different one i was somewhere else solving a murder or disappearance or something looking in a freezer for some reason when this girl appears behind me in a doorway looking incredibly creepy her smile was too big for her face eyes wide open she slowly starts monologuing and walking towards me then everything shifts and it turns out we are both actors doing a scene?? Yeah my dreams are weird sometimes. A year or two ago when ai image generation was getting its grounding still couldnt make faces or hands quite yet I swear I could SEE how the computer was generating the image. I could see the correlation between the computer generating an image and how my OWN brain would generate a thought or imagine in my head. I hope Im explaining this right cuz it doesnt really make sense lol. But it was very trippy to see. And if youre particularly attentive of real life details with time sometimes they become more real than actual life even if temporarily.. Although I compare it more to internal VR. You cant fully choose the ride or change them to your liking consistently like in those integrating human intelligence in VR fantasies that people have but I think thats part of its beauty. Each experience is unique. Crazy is when highly intuitive people get premonitions in their dreams and can confirm it in waking life. My aunt in her childhood recalls seeing a dream with fireballs dropping from sky in an apocalyptic fashion. Same day her sister had a fire accident in kitchen and burnt herself had to be rushed to hospital. Crazy is when dreams get diagnostic and predictive in a random/chaotic world. Like AI going through all your life choices similar to a quantum engine showing you trippy consequences of each of your life decisions. Alternatively current AI can only dream. And someday we might create one that wakes up. Its not AI its just I There is nothing artificial about it AI is .mimicking how we learn dreams are part of our learning process AI feels like dreams because its using the same principles as the human brain to process information. I can almost always fly for some reason. Otherwise my legs barely work in my dreams and I spend the whole night trying to get somewhere and failing. Its maddening. NOI! Dont you DARE destroying our damn DREAMS with fucking AI!!!! It is creeping into all other things the LAST thing we need is to have it in OUR DREAMS! Pro level dreams are when you are on a nicotine patch. Holy crap they were vivid to the point I had to check in the morning if I did what I thought happened or it was a dream. I have not dreamed like that cince I quit smoking and forgot and left a patch on. Always a combination of what we absorbed both fiction and nonfiction and what is real or at least want to be real to us My dreams feel like my reality but made up like hallucinations Flying or super power dreams are the coolest if you can actually be in control of it. I had a cool dream where I was at the bottom of the ocean and started drowning until I said ‘no I belong here’ and gave myself water breathing Damn ! I had this exact same moment last night. Something was visually off in a dream. I woke up briefly. Said to myself that must be AI generated. . And the next second l realised damn it was plain old dream man ! I regularly lucid dream and have thought on many occasions both that the dream environment resembled AI and that AI images sometimes look like dreams. Interestingly though hallucinations on drugs don’t seem to resemble AI at all. Dreams are very similar to ai because both rely on combining existing information in new forms. However the big difference between the two is that it’s easier to control ai by giving certain commands while dreams just randomly happen. Exactly like a glitchy remix of your memories. Feels real but just off AI may be the key to finally being able to see our dreams when awake. I always thought that way too. Especially the morphing aspects. When I see an AI video it really does remind me of how things morph in my dreams. For example a dog might morph into a cat. Dreams Natures original Virtual Reality. Zero equipment necessary! I am so sad this has become the normal way of thinking instead of the inverse Pretty sure this shower thought is written by ai [deleted] Feel like... Mate you ARE a neural network where did you think we copied architecture from? The only difference is youre running on a carbon hardware platform and AI on a silicon one. i think its more like taking the script for your dream and translating it into chinese and back a couple of times. Mine seems to be me in my underpants in a crowded area Occasionally I can remember/ save the dream but more often than not..just like a goofy AI picture..they get deleted forever. Yes. Our Brain kinda acts like an ai with our past memories inappropriate rehabilitation extraterrestrial identification cooperative hospitality ideology enfix vegetarian nationalism accumulation personality representative organisation Post 31 Babies probably know and recognise most places from just their ceilings. Author michilio /u/michilio has flaired this post as a **casual thought**. Casual thoughts should be presented well but may be less unique or less remarkable than . If this post is poorly written unoriginal or rulebreaking please report it. Otherwise please add your comment to the discussion! &ampnbsp This is an automated system. If you have any questions please to message the moderators. A family friend once found herself being followed around a play area by a crawling infant she didn’t know. She soon ran into the mom and realized they were wearing the same sneakers. Babies typically have pretty poor eyesight for the longest time so the finer details that would differentiate ceilings would be lost. However they also lack object permanence so they may just forget about each ceiling every time they are looking at a different one. Its how your mother recognizes every room in my house. Or they’re just in a constant state of panic until they see mom’s face. Cause mom is home??? Maybe I’m underestimating a babies capacity for memorization Babies dont have object permanence. As soon as a location leaves their field of vision they forget it ever existed. When I was very young and this would have been late 1970s I could tell the entire rout from my house to my grandparents house by watching the power lines from the back seat of the car. Which side of the road when they crossed how many there wereetc Im pretty old and I remember sitting in the car and all I could really see was the tops of tall trees and telephone poles/lines. High school wrestlers that never took it seriously know many high school gym ceilings One of my earliest childhood memories is from when I was in preschool and my dad came to pick me up. I hugged his legs when he came in then looked up and realized it was someone else’s dad and that my dad was standing behind him. Turns out they were wearing the same pants. Considering I was only kneehigh the pants were all I usually saw of my dad Only places theyve previously been surely. Theres not an innate encyclopaedic knowledge of ceilings around the world were born with but lose over time Or is there? Who can say? The funding for the sort of study necessary to definitively answer just isnt there at this time Ceiling fan** A baby will immediately know where they are depending on if there’s a ceiling fan. Babies probably think ceilings *are* the real world and we’re just weird ceiling creatures that occasionally pick them up and burp them. [deleted] As an adult I cant even recognize most places WITH the ceilings. Mine dont like laying alone facing upwards I have a memory of the floors in our first house. I was just about 3 when we moved. I wonder how a baby would act in space with no gravity.. I have very clear memories of the house we moved from when I was 2.5 years old…but the most vivid ones involve the kitchen floor black/white checked linoleum and my bedroom pink carpet. According to my parents I was a very active crawler. No. They arent always held and carried horizontally face up. Walks on the other hand... First couple hundred of their walks will be just views of the sky sometimes with tree branches. Actually from window silhouettes and colourful wallpapers/walls. Ceilings have small details that are hard to recognize as a baby. Source I still have my newborn/baby memories. idk as a baby I spent a lot of my time staring at the floor rather than the ceiling... i crawled a lot True! No wonder they get so good at staring at the ceiling they’re basically experts in their first ‘room tour ceilings are basically their first map of the world Post 32 Future archeologists and treasurehunters will have intense lovehate relationships with landfills. Author Happy_Da /u/Happy_Da has flaired this post as a **speculation**. Speculations should prompt people to consider interesting premises that cannot be reliably verified or falsified. If this post is poorly written unoriginal or rulebreaking please report it. Otherwise please add your comment to the discussion! &ampnbsp This is an automated system. If you have any questions please to message the moderators. Its exactly what current archeologists do with One man’s trash is another man’s doctoral thesis. Archaeologist here! I personally love landfills. In abandoned places people *usually* take everything with them when they go... except their rubbish. And you can learn loads from what they left behind. Landfills are useful for mapping determining eating habits income occupations personal demographics... all sorts of wonderful data. [*Full disclosure I am not currently employed in an archaeologyrelated occupation though I am properly educated have my certifications and have worked both in the office and the field.*] Current archeologists already have found landfill type spaces. They can be good or bad for studying stuff. If they know it’s a landfill they expect a lot of broken stuff. If they don’t it may take a while to realize it is one and have to figure out why everything is broken. In the year 3000 archaeologists will argue over whether that mysterious object is an ancient tool or just an oddly shaped piece of trash. Spoiler alert it’s probably both. They already do. Source am archaeologist. Read up on cesspits. They are informational goldmines but noone wants to dig them up. So at my last dig where we found one we all got assigned a morning or afternoon to dig The trash pile is where the real treasure is!! They’re going to FUCKING hate digitization. Suddenly all of our rich written history will have just disappeared to them locked in old file formats and broken devices. We record *everything* now but it’s going to be inaccessible. why did they bury their feeding utensils next to their intercourse assistants??? I think the lovehate relationship with landfills won’t be about the content but its collection. Archeologists will love all the 21st century artifacts but hate having to dig it all up. Near where I live they found a Roman trash pile like a landfill in excavation of oyster shells. I was fortunate enough to see the dig site and the archeologists loved all the remains they found but disliked the fact it was difficult to excavate because of its structure. And people want me to be worried that theyll see my male bone structure after I die Like bitch theyll also find a bottle Ive shoved up my ass somewhere else. Who cares that they didnt know im hot? Our landfills will be the mines of the future. Once all the highgrade ore has been depleted well have to start digging up trash. Theyd love them ngl. Archaeologists now love trashpits cuz thats where we get so much of out knowledge from So do current archaelogists. Heck they even have to sort through poo! Many luxury homeowners are now experiencing this same phenomenon today…. Just like us with our junk drawers a mess but you never know when you might find a gem! Future archeologists will dig through landfills find my mismatched Tupperware lids and finally solve the mystery of w.. Junk piles and such refuse are honestly a great way of determining how a society lived so Id say its a treasure trove for archaeology. As a history student Current archaeologists love ancient landfills. I’ve seen museum exhibits consisting of items found in old trash dumps or caves broken pieces of pottery old bottles discarded combs lost beads small bones. To the old cultures these items were literal garbage. To us they’re a glimpse into the past. It’s crazy to think that in a few hundred years the old cone can that someone tossed out their window could end up a historical artifact” in a museum. They already do. I have a friend who spent days doing nothing but digging through seashells in a midden at a Chumash site bored out of their mind. It turns out there was nothing there but the seashells. No other artifacts. We already know the Chumash ate a lot of shellfish nothing learned. Oh man whoever hits the dirty diaper layer.... Yikes I was doing trial teaching on a site in the north of England 4 fields interconnected two of which were used for horses they were temporarily moved around the fields When we got to the last two fields that the horses were in the amount of old glass bottles ceramic cups &amp plates metal scrap and pockets of asbestos was insane! It was quite sad to see. Im talking about 3050 metre long trenches about 2m/5m deep at the lowest the walls completely filled with this rubbish that obviously wasnt of use or interest to us but we still had to check every trench. The scale of it was so bad that the trench walls were made from more human debris than dirt in a solid 20 of the trenches out of nearly 100 combined for all 4 fields. They were dangerous to be inside and no archaeology could be found with them in that state. Since we werent a removal company we had to just close the trenches back up afterwards and I doubt that will be removed anytime soon. We already have ancient ‘landfills’. Source studying archaeology Unless society actually does collapse and we have to start over future archaeology is going to be really boring. Everything is recorded there will be less mystery. [deleted] [removed] I think landfills will end up becoming mines for the metals. There is a great series of scifi books about this. Where in the distant future archeologists search an abandoned earth for treasure from our age. By the time they are digging around in them it will mostly be dirt. A modern historians worst kept secret stash! Future evolved raccoons will have intense love for all the metals we dug up purified and then buried in refined petrochemical trash. The thrill of discovery instantly ruined by the smell of 150yearold landfill gas. Pass the mint. There will be wars over preserving these ancient treasure troves VS burning them before the mutants get too big Imagine in a 1000 years an archeologist is doing a dig and finds a jack black action figure from the Minecraft movie Landfills might be full of items from the present and recent past that future archaeologists might excavate but they might not be as insightful as old historical sites since they’re full of junk and trash instead of valuable items. My shower thought addition to this is what if mineral deposits are just landfills from millenia old civilizations? [deleted]